Mapping of functionalized regions on carbon nanotubes by 
scanning tunneling microscopy 
P. Nemes – Incze*,†, Z. Kónya‡, I. Kiricsi‡, Á. Pekker§, Z.E. Horváth†, K. Kamarás§, L.P. 
Biró† 
Abstract 
Scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) gives us the opportunity to map the surface of functionalized 
carbon nanotubes in an energy resolved manner and with atomic precision. But this potential is largely 
untapped, mainly due to sample stability issues which inhibit reliable measurements. Here we present 
a simple and straightforward solution that makes away with this difficulty, by incorporating the 
functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNT) into a few layer graphene – nanotube 
composite. This enabled us to measure energy resolved tunneling conductance maps on the nanotubes, 
which shed light on the level of doping, charge transfer between tube and functional groups and the 
dependence of defect creation or functionalization on crystallographic orientation. 
Keywords: functionalization, carbon nanotubes, few layer graphene, STM, CITS, STS 
In the decades following their discovery, the chemistry of carbon nanotubes (CNTs) has grown into a 
mature field of research1,2,3. Sidewall functionalization of CNTs has turned out to be a versatile tool to 
change their electronic properties1,4,5,6,7 and the ways in which the tubes interact with their 
environment8,9,10,11. This broadens considerably their applicability, from sensors and medical 
uses2,10,12,13 to composite materials8. In all such cases we need a clear picture of the changes 
                                                          
*  Corresponding author email: nemes@mfa.kfki.hu 
†  Research Institute for Technical Physics and Materials Science, H-1525, PO. Box 49 Budapest, Hungary 
‡  Department of Applied and Environmental Chemistry, University of Szeged, Rerrich Béla sqr. 1, H-6720 
Szeged, Hungary 
§  Research Institute for Solid State Physics and Optics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-1525, PO Box 49 
Budapest, Hungary 

functionalization induces in the nanotube, like: surface topography, band structure, doping, etc. to be 
able to refine these applications and to better understand the physical and chemical processes involved 
in functionalization. Changes to the nanotube electronic structure are usually investigated via 
spectroscopic methods, which are a global probe of CNT properties6. Complementary to these 
methods are scanning probe methods, namely scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and atomic force 
microscopy (AFM), which provide spatially resolved information down to the atomic scale. STM is 
one of the most important tools in nanoscale science and has been the source of landmark findings in 
the study of carbon nanotubes. Using STM, Wildöer et al. gave a first account of the relation between 
CNT wrapping direction and their predicted band structure14, while Lemay et al. were able to map 
individual wavefunctions of CNTs15. These breakthroughs were possible because the tunneling current 
in STM can be measured simultaneously as a function of both energy and location on the sample. One 
way to achieve this is by using the so called Current Imaging Tunneling Spectroscopy or CITS mode, 
during which in each pixel of the CITS image the scanning STM tip acquires a tunneling current vs. 
voltage (STS) curve and stores it together with the topographic information. Using CITS image we can 
obtain local tunneling conductance maps of the sample by plotting the derivative of the current (dI/dV) 
as a function of the tip – sample bias voltage value. Among other examples, it has been applied in 
mapping the local photovoltaic performance of organic solar cells16 and to map the charge 
inhomogeneity of SiO2 supported graphene17. However, the full potential of STM as a tool in mapping 
the electronic properties of functionalized CNTs has not been achieved yet. Direct STM and CITS 
measurements could yield more insight into the extent and nature of sidewall functionalization as 
opposed to other methods of visualizing functionalized sites18. One key bottleneck in achieving this is 
sample stability. 
In the case of STM, as with any high resolution microscopy tool, good mechanical stability of the 
sample is of paramount importance to obtain reliable measurements. Because of the presence of 
functional groups on the tube surface the contact area with the substrate decreases and this leads to a 
weakening of the overall force (ex. van der Waals) which anchors the tubes to the support. The metal 
tip of the STM can exert considerable forces, mainly electrostatic in nature, on the tubes19,20 and it can 

move the CNTs in the fast scan direction and can effectively “clean out” the scan area of the tubes we 
would want to investigate (Fig. 1). This is illustrated in Fig. 1b, where we show an AFM image of a 
20x20 µm2 area which was previously scanned by STM. After only 3 passes over the same area, 
practically all of the CNTs have been brushed to the sides. The inset in Fig. 1 shows how, during 
scanning of the STM tip, a nanotube can move to the side, then after a few scan lines the tube moves 
back to its original position. We can also find evidence of such tube movement in the literature18,21,22,23. 
While this problem seems to be less critical in the case of lightly functionalized tubes24 and/or if the 
measurement is performed in UHV25,26,27,28 it makes imaging such CNTs a challenge. One way around 
this problem is to immobilize the nanotubes, for example by binding the tubes to the substrate via 
strong chemical bonds. The work of Zhang et al. is a good example of this22, where they have used Au 
– S chemistry to anchor the thiol or thiophene terminated functional groups on the nanotubes to the Au 
substrate, effectively immobilizing them. While fruitful, this method is not applicable in all cases 
because of the need to have chemical binding between the nanotubes and substrate. Furthermore, the 
chemical bond may perturb the tube electronic structure22. Here we present a method to immobilize 
CNTs on a graphitic support, which provides a sample that is stable enough to allow reproducible 
CITS measurements and is a well studied CNT – support system. 
 

Figure 1. (a) Successive STM images (top and bottom) of a region on HOPG containing functionalized CNTs show that 
CNTs can be swept away by the STM tip. Extensive movement of the CNTs can be observed on the top image. The nanotube 
movement is also evident in the inset, where a single CNT shifts position during scanning and shifts back to its original 
position after a few scan lines. (b) Tapping mode AFM image of functionalized CNTs on a HOPG surface measured in a 
region where the STM tip was previously scanned (Fig. 1a). The AFM image is taken after the 3rd STM scan. STM scanning 
was performed using 300 pA current setpoint and 100 mV bias voltage. The fast scan direction is horizontal. 
Results and Discussion 
Multiwalled CNTs used in this study have been prepared by chemical vapor deposition of acetylene 
over alumina supported Co/Fe catalyst29. The functionalization of the nanotubes was done in a three 
step process reported elsewhere30. Briefly, in the first step the pristine CNTs were treated in 
H2SO4/HNO3 (3:1) mixture for 24 h at room temperature. Such a treatment attaches –OH and –COOH 
groups to the CNT outer wall, which were transformed into –COCl groups in a second step involving 
stirring overnight in SOCl2. In a final step the as obtained sample was stirred in diaminopropane for 
24h. The diaminopropane can connect the functional groups on the nanotubes, which results in 
covalently interconnected MWCNTs as illustrated in Fig. 2a and the TEM image shown in Fig. 3c. 
Functionalization increases the tube surface defect concentration, as observed in the Raman spectra 
through an increase in the D peak intensity relative to the G peak (ID/IG)31 (Fig. 2b). Attenuated Total 
Reflection – IR (ATR – IR) spectra of the pristine sample shows some signs of OH groups, which may 
be due to isopropanol residues in the CNT suspension or may be the sign of mild oxidation of the 
pristine sample. The spectra of the functionalized samples shows a peak corresponding to the -NH 
group. However, the presence of carboxyl can still be recognized, which indicates that the conversion 
of –COCl groups into amide was not complete. Such cross-linked carbon nanotubes are an interesting 
avenue in improving the mechanical and electrical transport properties of nanotube networks32,33 and 
functionalization schemes similar to our own have been studied6,34. Here we report for the first time 
atomic resolution STM and CITS measurements on such CNTs. 

 
Figure 2. (a) MWCNTs interconnected by diaminopropane. (b) Raman spectra of the starting CNT material and of the 
functionalized sample. The spectra are normalized to the G peak intensity. (c) ATR-IR spectra shows peaks corresponding to 
–OH and –COOH groups in both the pristine and functionalized samples and a signature of –NH in the functionalized 
sample. 
 
Figure 3. (a) Illustration of the CNT – FLG composite and the STM measurement. (b) STM image of a functionalized CNT 
sticking out from beneath a FLG layer, also seen in Fig. 4d. (c) and (d) TEM images of the functionalized CNTs. The surface 
of the tubes is irregular and some tubes are interconnected as seen in (c). 

The immobilization of the functionalized CNTs is done by sandwiching them between few layer 
graphite (FLG) flakes in a CNT – FLG composite, i.e. a buckypaper (Fig 3a, b). The nano-composite 
has regions on its surface where functionalized CNTs stick out from beneath a FLG layer we show an 
STM image of such a region in Fig. 3b. In places like this, the movement of the nanotube is restricted 
by the clamping FLG layer and provides a good sample for stable and reproducible STM and CITS 
measurements. This particular composite is advantageous, because graphite and MWCNTs have 
nearly the same work function35, thus no significant doping by the substrate is expected. 
 
Figure 4. (a), (d) STM images and (b), (e) tunneling conductance maps of functionalized nanotubes extending from below a 
FLG clamping layer (conductance units are in nano Siemens). Figure (a) shows a bundle of 3 nanotubes, which are possibly 
cross linked by functional groups. The tunneling conductance maps are displayed at -160 mV bias voltage. In (c) and (f) we 
show dI/dV spectra from the regions marked by arrows of the same color in (b) and (e) respectively. The spectra are 
displaced vertically for ease of comparison. 

STM images of a bundle of three functionalized nanotubes and a single tube can be seen in Fig. 4a and 
Fig. 4d, while in Fig. 4 b,e we present a map of the simultaneously acquired local tunneling 
conductance on these tubes. We obtained this map from the CITS image by taking the first derivative 
of the STS curves and displaying the conductance value at -160 mV bias voltage. We can observe on 
the same image the different conductance of the graphite support and of the nanotubes. Such dI/dV 
tunneling conductance maps are qualitatively proportional to the nanotube local density of states 
(LDOS). At a first glance the dI/dV map on the nanotube surface shows regions of high and low 
conductance. Comparing the dI/dV curves from such selected regions we can see some similarities and 
some differences in the spectra. The curves from the high conductance regions (red arrow and curve) 
and the substrate (black arrow and curve) are similar and have a typical graphitic shape, with 
monotonically increasing conductance that is symmetrical with respect to the LDOS minimum. 
Measuring a graphitic dI/dV signal on multiwalled CNTs is a reasonable expectation, because at the 
large tube diameters in this sample (~15 nm) the Van Hove singularities are very close together and 
get smoothed out due to the spread of the Fermi function at 300K and due to disorder effects36. The 
minimum of LDOS, which occurs because of the vanishing electron states at the K points, is shifted 
slightly to positive tip – sample bias voltages. This means that the chemical potential is shifted away 
from its equilibrium position, i.e. that the sample is p-doped. It has been shown that nitric and sulfuric 
acid can have a strong, p doping effect on CNTs37,38. In our case, acid molecules adsorbed on the 
nanotube surface are a result of the purification treatment. These molecules donate a positive charge to 
the carbon lattice, which becomes delocalized over the π electron system. Additional causes for the p 
doping may be the result of measuring under ambient conditions, during which oxygen or oxygen 
containing adsorbents can be present on the composite buckypaper (water from ambient, isopropanol 
from the CNT suspension)39. These processes lead to a “global” p doping of the nanotubes and has 
been measured previously by optical reflectivity and thermopower measurements 37,38. But the true 
power of CITS measurements comes from the local information it provides. Thus, examining the 
conductance maps further we can see regions with lower conductance than the support or other regions 
on the tubes (green arrow and curve). dI/dV curves in these regions have a much less well defined 
minimum and are highly asymmetrical in places. We attributed these types of curves to defective 

and/or intensely functionalized regions of the CNTs, where the low conductance values arise from the 
destruction of the sp2 π electron lattice40. During functionalization the sp2 carbon atoms change to sp3, 
thus reducing the number of delocalized π electrons. In the case of monovalent functional groups, such 
as in our case, theory predicts the existence of well defined impurity states near the Fermi level4, but 
we were unable to find the signature of such states in the dI/dV curves taken above functionalized 
sites, contrary to other systems we have studied41. Again, this is a sign that in these regions the surface 
cannot be treated as graphitic, the functionalization does not perturb but rather completely alter the 
graphite lattice. This conclusion is also supported by the TEM images, where we can see that the 
graphitic layers of the tubes are damaged. 
 
Figure 5. STM images of two sections of a functionalized CNT shown in Fig 4d. Zoomed in, lattice resolved images were 
obtained in the regions marked by blue squares. Tunneling conductance maps were obtained simultaneously and are 
displayed at -225 mV bias voltage. Functionalized regions show up as protrusions on the nanotube surface and as low 

conductance areas in the conductance maps. Red lines mark the zigzag direction on the atomic resolution image. The 
functionalized regions follow the zigzag direction. The superstructure patterns on the atomic lattice are a sign of defect 
scattering (marked by circle). 
The STM topography of these tubes also shows a rough surface, which is typical of highly defective 
and functionalized CNTs, where the functional groups usually appear as protrusions on the nanotube 
surface22,24. Figure 5a,b show two distinct STM topography images of a functionalized CNT. 
Comparing the conductance maps with the topography, we can observe that the low conductance 
regions show a degree of correlation with the protrusions on the surface. Especially in Fig. 5a, bands 
of protrusions can be observed, along with bands of low conductance in the corresponding dI/dV map. 
Furthermore, it was not possible to obtain atomic resolution images on the low conductance regions, 
only on the regions with high conductance. Alongside the graphitic dI/dV curves, this suggests that the 
regions with high conductance are mostly free of defects and functional groups. Here the atomic lattice 
shows a typical superstructure pattern, a hallmark of electron scattering between two non equivalent K 
points in the Brillouin zone24,28,42. As these superstructure patterns can extend to a few nanometers 
from the defect site producing them42 it is fair to say that they are due to scattering taking place on the 
defects created by functionalization. If we compare the atomic resolution images with the 
functionalized bands, we find that these follow the zigzag direction along the nanotube circumference. 
To date, only a few such STM studies are available which show the correlation between 
crystallographic direction and functionalization, for example on fluorinated CNTs28. These 
measurements provide experimental evidence that oxidation reactions on CNTs can prefer a specific 
crystallographic direction, as it was presumed in recent experiments which involved the unzipping of 
carbon nanotubes to graphene nanoribbons43. Although the acid treatment in our case is much milder 
than in the case of CNT43 and graphene oxidation44, our results suggest that in the specific case 
discussed here, which involves nitric-sulfuric acid oxidation, this direction is the zigzag direction. 

 
Figure 6. Tunneling conductance maps of the nanotube region seen in Fig. 5b, with selected dI/dV curves. The bias voltages 
at which the maps were plotted are marked by dashed lines. Atomic resolution was achieved in the region marked by the red 
arrow. The low conductance regions show similar dI/dV curves as the ones seen in Fig 4 (green). (The dI/dV maps are 75x75 
nm in size). Lower right: map of the dI/dV minimum in the same region as the conductance map the bias voltage value for 
the dI/dV minimum is displayed on a color scale. Colored arrows show the positions where the respective dI/dV curves were 
taken. 

Now, let us examine the dI/dV maps of one nanotube in more detail. In Fig. 6 we show six plots of the 
tunneling conductance map of the tube shown in Fig. 5b at different tip – sample bias voltages. These 
voltages have been selected in such a way, as to be symmetrical relative to the dI/dV minimum. We 
can distinguish three regions based on these maps. One region is where atomic resolution could be 
achieved (marked by a red arrow). Maps of such regions have symmetrical conductance values with 
respect to the minimum of dI/dV or in other words to the LDOS minimum. Such behavior is graphitic 
in nature, due to the symmetry in energy of the nanotube bands around the K points. As we have seen 
before, another region is where the overall conductance is low and no atomic resolution can be 
achieved. We have attributed these changes to heavily functionalized regions (marked with a green 
arrow). Further inspection of the maps reveals a third region, where the dI/dV maps are asymmetrical, 
here the tunneling conductance is higher for positive tip – sample bias voltages (blue arrow). The 
origin of this asymmetry is not clear, but it may be due to impurity states at functionalized or defect 
sites4,41. Another feature of this dI/dV curve is that its minimum is shifted towards a more negative 
sample voltage, making this region less p-doped. We can expect such behavior if there is charge 
transfer between the nanotube and attached molecules or radicals, which leads to a local Coulomb 
potential and therefore to a shift in energy of the nanotube bands. In Fig. 6 we plot a map of the LDOS 
minimum on the nanotube by displaying the bias voltage value for the dI/dV minimum on a color 
scale. From this map we can see that the mostly functional group free regions are heavily p-doped, 
with a Fermi level shift of around 0.25 eV. This is the global doping level of the sample, and as we 
discussed earlier it arises due to acid molecule adsorption and additionally it is expected if we have 
functionalization by electron acceptors such as carboxyl groups or other oxygen containing 
complexes45. The map of LDOS minimum correlates nicely with the conductance map showing the 
places of asymmetric dI/dV curves attributed to functionalized sites (blue arrows in Fig. 6). We have 
to mention that the interpretation of this map is not straightforward in the low conductance regions, 
where the sp2 carbon lattice is heavily damaged and the electronic structure of the surface is unknown. 
Conclusions 

The CNT immobilization technique presented here is widely applicable to any type of functionalized 
nanotube and provides a well studied CNT – support system, i.e. CNT on graphite. We have shown for 
the first time that acid oxidation and subsequent functionalization has a preference of advancing along 
the zigzag crystallographic direction on large diameter multiwalled CNTs. Our measurements 
illustrate clearly the kind of advantage energy resolved maps can give, namely to spot sample features 
that are not apparent from STM topography maps and provides a local functionalization state and 
doping. Furthermore, this measurement technique allows certain ‘in situ’ studies that could not be 
performed otherwise, for example to examine the topography and energy resolved behavior of 
functionalized CNTs, while being exposed to different gas or vapor environments10. This may lead to a 
better understanding of the adsorption processes and the electronic structure variations involved in gas 
sensing with functionalized nanotube networks. 
Methods 
The composite presented here is a buckypaper obtained by mixing the functionalized CNTs with 
commercially available exfoliated graphite in isopropyl alcohol by ultrasonic stirring. The as obtained 
suspension was filtered through a polycarbonate membrane filter (200 nm pore size) and left to dry. 
Pieces from this buckypaper were cut out and placed on the STM sample holder, electrical contact to 
the buckypaper was made by carbon colloid paste. 
A Multimode III SPM (Veeco) was operated in the CITS mode to acquire the STM images. The STS 
data was extracted from the raw CITS files and processed separately using Scilab (www.scilab.org) for 
easy manipulation and extraction of individual STS curves. All the STM images and STS curves 
presented here were obtained using the same Pt/Ir STM probe. Tips were mechanically cut from Pt/Ir 
(80:20) wire and were use for characterization only if they produced reproducible STS spectra and 
atomic resolution on graphite. Atomic resolution images on the nanotubes were acquired using 500 pA 
tunneling current and 100 mV tip – sample bias voltage. STM topography and CITS images were 
acquired using 300 pA tunneling current and 300 mV bias voltage. 

TEM measurements were done using a Philips CM20 microscope operated at 200 keV. 
