Estimating the size of the solution space of metabolic net-
works
Alfredo Braunstein1,2, Roberto Mulet2, Andrea Pagnani3
1ISI Foundation Viale Settimio Severo 65, Villa Gualino, I-10133 Torino, Italy
2“Henri-Poincar´e-Group” of Complex Systems and Department of Theoretical Physics, Physics Faculty, University of Havana, La
Habana, CP 10400, Cuba
3Politecnico di Torino, Corso Duca degli Abruzzi 34, I-10129, Torino, Italy
Email: Alfredo Braunstein - alfredo.braunstein@polito.it; Roberto Mulet∗- mulet@ﬁsica.uh.cu; Andrea Pagnani∗- pagnani@isi.it;
∗Corresponding author
Abstract
Background: Cellular metabolism is one of the most investigated system of biological interactions. While the
topological nature of individual reactions and pathways in the network is quite well understood there is still a lack
of comprehension regarding the global functional behavior of the system. To get some insight in this direction, in
the last few years powerful theoretical methods such as extreme pathways calculation and ﬂux-balance analysis
(FBA) have been introduced. These methods strongly rely on the hypothesis that the organism maximizes an
objective function. However only under very speciﬁc biological conditions (e.g. maximization of biomass for E-Coli
in reach nutrient medium) the cell seems to obey such optimization law. A more reﬁned analysis not assuming
extremization remains an elusive task for large metabolic systems due to algorithmic constraints.
Results: In this work we propose a novel algorithmic strategy that allows for an eﬃcient characterization of
the whole set of stable ﬂuxes compatible with the metabolic constraints. Using a technique derived from the
ﬁelds of statistical physics and information theory we designed a stochastic algorithm to estimate the size of the
aﬃne space containing all possible steady-state ﬂux distributions of metabolic networks. The algorithm, based
on the well-known Bethe approximation, allows the computation in polynomial time of the volume of a non
full-dimensional convex polytope in high dimensions. We show results for toy models that compare very well with
the results of exact algorithms. The result of our algorithm match closely the prediction of Monte Carlo based
estimations of the ﬂux distributions of the Red Blood Cell metabolic network. It is then used to analyze the
statistical properties of the average ﬂuxes of the reactions in the E-Coli metabolic network and ﬁnally to test the
eﬀect of gene knock-outs on the size of the solution space of the E-Coli central metabolism.
Conclusions: We propose a novel eﬃcient algorithmic strategy to estimate the size and shape of the aﬃne space
of a non full-dimensional convex polytope in high dimensions. The method is shown to obtain, quantitatively and
qualitatively compatible results compared with known algorithms (where this comparison is possible) being still
eﬃcient on the analysis of large biological systems, where all other known strategies experience an explosion in
algorithmic time.
1
arXiv:0709.0922v1  [cond-mat.dis-nn]  6 Sep 2007

Background
Cellular metabolism is a complex biological problem.
It can be viewed as a chemical engine that trans-
forms available raw materials into energy or into the
building blocks needed for the biological function of
the cells. In more speciﬁc terms a metabolic net-
work is indeed a processing system transforming in-
put metabolites (nutrients), into output metabolites
(amino acids, lipids, sugars etc.) according to very
strict molecular proportions, often referred as stoi-
chiometric coeﬃcients of the reactions.
Although the general topological properties of
these networks are well characterized, see for exam-
ple [1–3], and non-trivial pathways are well known
for many species [4] the cooperative role of these
pathways is hard to comprehend. In fact, the large
sizes of these networks, usually containing hundreds
of metabolites and even more reactions, makes the
comprehension of the principles that govern their
global function a challenging task. Therefore, a nec-
essary step to achieve this goal is the use of mathe-
matical models and the development of novel statis-
tical techniques to characterize and simulate these
networks.
For example, it is well known that under evo-
lutionary pressure, prokaryotes cells like E-Coli be-
have optimizing their growth performance [5]. Flux
Balance Analysis (FBA) provides a powerful tool to
predict, from the whole space of phenotipic states,
which one will these cells acquire. In few words one
may say that FBA maximizes a linear function (usu-
ally the growth rate of the cell) subject to biochemi-
cal and thermodynamic constraints [6]. On the other
hand, cells with genetically engineered knockouts or
bacterial strains that were not exposed to evolution
pressures, need not to optimize their growth. In fact,
the method of minimization metabolic adjustment
(MOMA) [7] has shown that knockout metabolic
ﬂuxes undergo a minimal redistribution with respect
to the ﬂux conﬁguration of the wild type.
Yet,
in more general situations, the results are unpre-
dictable, therefore, a tool to characterize the shape
and volume of the whole space of possible phenotipic
solutions must be welcome.
Unfortunately,
this
characterization
has
re-
mained an elusive task. As far as we know the at-
tempts to obtain such a characterization were always
based on the Monte Carlo sampling of the steady-
state ﬂux space [8]. But unfortunately, it appeared
that this kind of sampling is a very expensive calcu-
lation and is unsuitable for very large networks. To
address this problem we propose, using a technique
derived from the ﬁelds of statistical physics and in-
formation theory, an algorithm that may eﬃciently
characterize the whole set of stable ﬂuxes compati-
bles with the stoichiometric constraints.
Mathematical Model
As already mentioned, a metabolic network is an
engine that converts metabolites into other metabo-
lites through a series of intra-cellular intermediate
steps. The fundamental equation characterizing all
functional states of a reconstructed biochemical re-
action network is a mass conservation law that im-
poses simple linear constraints between the incoming
and outcoming ﬂuxes at any chemical reaction. It is
call the dynamic mass balance equation:
∂ρ
∂t = i + ˆS · ν −o
(1)
where ρ is the vector of the M metabolite concen-
trations in the network. i (o) is the input (output)
vector of ﬂuxes, and ν are the reaction ﬂuxes gov-
erned by the M ×N stoichiometric linear operator ˆS
(usually named stoichiometric matrix) encoding the
coeﬃcient of the M intra-cellular relations among
the N ﬂuxes.
As long as just steady-state cellular properties
are concerned one can assume that a variation in
the concentration of metabolites in a cell can be ig-
nored and considered as constant. Therefore in case
of ﬁxed external conditions one can assume metabo-
lites (quasi) stationarity and consequently the lhs of
1 can be set to zero. Under these hypotheses the
problem of ﬁnding the metabolic ﬂuxes compatible
with ﬂux-balance is mathematically described by the
linear system of equations
ˆS · ν = o −i ≡b
(2)
where b is the net metabolite uptake by the cell.
Without loss of generality we can assume that the
stoichiometric matrix ˆS has full rows rank, i.e. that
rank( ˆS) = M, since linearly dependent equations
can be easily identiﬁed and removed. Knowing that
the number of metabolites M is lower than the
number of ﬂuxes N the subspace of solutions is a
(N −M)-dimensional manifold embedded in the N-
dimensional space of ﬂuxes.
In addition, the pos-
itivity of ﬂuxes, together with the experimentally
2

accessible values for the maximal ﬂuxes, limit fur-
ther the space of feasible solutions. This fact may
be expressed by the following inequalities:
0 ≤ν ≤νmax
(3)
in such a way that together, 2 and 3, deﬁne the
convex set of all the allowed time-independent phe-
notipic states of a given metabolic network.
Sub-dimensional volumes
Mathematically speaking, the space of feasible solu-
tions consistent with the equations 2 constitutes an
aﬃne space V ⊂RN of dimension N −M. The set of
inequalities 3 then deﬁnes a convex polytope Π ⊂V
that, from the metabolic point of view, may be con-
sidered as the allowed conﬁguration space for the cell
states. With the scope of describing it, we will be
interested in computing the volume of this space and
certain volumes of subspaces of it. Although concep-
tually simple, the notion of sub-dimensional volume
like that of Π requires some new deﬁnitions.
Consider
any
linear
parameterization
φ
:
RN−M →V ⊂RN. A popular choice for φ is, for
instance, the inverse of the so called lexicographical
projection i.e., the projection over the ﬁrst N −M
coordinates such that its restriction to V has an in-
verse. Being φ linear, the (N −M) × N Jacobian
matrix ˆλ is constant and coincides with the matrix of
φ in the canonical bases. Denoting λ = det(ˆλ†ˆλ)
1
2 ,
the Euclidean metric in RN induces a measure on V
(which does not depend on φ):
Z
V
f(ν)dν ≡λ
Z
f(φ(u))du
(4)
allowing to compute the volume of our polytope
volV (Π) ≡
Z
V
1Π(ν)dν = λ
Z
1φ−1(Π)(u)du
(5)
where 1Π (·) is the indicator function of the set Π. It
is worth pointing out that given the linear structure
of the metabolic equations, the determinant of the
mapping is a (scalar) constant.
Probabilistic framework
The problem of describing the polytope Π can for-
mulated in a probabilistic framework. We deﬁne the
probability density P as:
P(ν) = volV (Π)−11Π(ν)
(6)
Marginal ﬂux probabilities over a given set of ﬂuxes
are obtained by integrating out all remaining de-
grees of freedom. In particular we can deﬁne sin-
gle ﬂux marginal probability densities as integrals
on the aﬃne subspace W = V ∩{νi = ν}:
Pi(νi) =
Z
W
P(ν)
Y
j̸=i
dνj = volW (Π ∩W)
(7)
i.e.
the (sub dimensional) volume of the intersec-
tion between the polytope Π and the hyperplane
{νi = ν}.
Results and Discussion
Performance on low dimensional systems
In this section we will analyze the performance of
our algorithm against an exact algorithm on low di-
mensional polytopes. Among the diﬀerent packages
available in the Internet, we have chosen LRS [9], a
program based on the reverse search algorithm pre-
sented by Avis and Fukuda in [10] that can compute
the volume of non-full dimensional polytopes. Actu-
ally, it computes the volume of the lexicographically
smallest representation of the polytope, that for the
benchmark used below, coincides with the conven-
tional volume estimated by our algorithm.
We have devised a speciﬁc benchmark generating
random diluted stoichiometric matrices at a given
ratio α = M/N and ﬁxed number of terms diﬀerent
from zero K in each of the reactions. All ﬂuxes were
constrained inside the hypercube 0 ≤νi ≤1. As a
general strategy we have calculated several random
instances of the problem and measured the volume
(entropy) of the polytope using the LRS and BP al-
gorithm. In particular, we have ﬁrst generated 1000
realizations of random stoichiometric matrices with
N = 12, M = 4. Note that N = 12 is around the
maximum that allows simulations with LRS in rea-
sonable time (around one hour per instance). For
each polytope then we have computed the two en-
tropies SLRS and SBP with both algorithms, ﬁx-
ing the same maximum value for the discretization
qmax = 1024 for all ﬂuxes.
In Figure 1.2 we show how the quality of the
BP measure is aﬀected by the discretization, by
displaying the histogram of the relative diﬀerences
δS = SBP −SLRS
SLRS
with an increasing number of bins
per variable qmax = 16, 64, 256, 1024. One can see
how a ﬁner binning of messages improves the qual-
ity of the approximation, seeminlgy converging to a
3

single distribution of errors. It is expected that for
larger N the histograms would shrink: upon increas-
ing the number of ﬂuxes, loops become larger and
the overall topology of the graph becomes more lo-
cally tree-like, validating the hypothesis behind the
Bethe approximation. Unfortunately, the huge in-
crease of computer time experimented in the calcu-
lation of the volumes using LRS made impossible to
test systems large enough to make any reasonable
scaling analysis.
Finally we address the issue of the computational
complexity of the algorithm which is a crucial one if
one is interested in approaching real world metabolic
networks whose size typically is at least 50 times the
size of the largest network that can be analyzed with
exact algorithms. In Figure 1.1 we display the run-
ning time of both LRS and BP as a function of the
number of ﬂuxes N. Interesting, LRS outperforms
BP up to sizes N ∼12 where the running time of
LRS explodes exponentially while BP maintains a
modest almost-linear behavior.
Distribution of ﬂuxes in Red Blood Cell
The algorithm was used to obtain the distribution
of ﬂux values for each of the reactions of the Red
Blood Cell metabolism. The maximum allowed val-
ues for the ﬂuxes, as well as the corresponding sto-
ichiometric matrix were extracted directly from [8].
The network contained 46 reactions and 34 metabo-
lites.
Our distributions appear in Figure 1.3 and
as can be checked by direct comparison they are
almost identical to those obtained with the Monte
Carlo method in with the Figure 5 in [8]. However,
while the Monte Carlo method appears to be quite
expensive in computational resources (the authors
of [8] reported one week of computer computation
in a Dell Dimension 8200 to obtain their distribu-
tions) our algorithm converged to the same results
in a couple of minutes of computation on a similar
machine.
Analysis of gene knock-out in E-Coli
Then, we analyze the distribution function of the av-
erage ﬂuxes of the metabolic network of the E-Coli.
The network used contains, in its original format,
1035 reactions and 626 metabolites, [11]. From this
network we eliminated all those reactions with frac-
tional stoichiometric indexes, since our algorithm in
its present form is unable to deal with them, and all
those metabolites with connectivity larger than 40.
These metabolites are cofactors of the metabolism
and their elimination helps to sparse the matrix im-
proving the convergence of the algorithm. Finally
we checked for inconsistencies (i.e. metabolites that
after the previous transformations are only produced
or consumed), and we obtain a matrix with 1005 re-
actions and 560 metabolites. We ran our algorithm
on this network and computed the average ﬂuxes in
each reaction. The probability distribution function
(pdf) of these average values appears in Figure 1.4.
As can be clearly seen the distribution is large and
may be ﬁtted with a power law with exponent close
to 1, a result that compares very well with previous
simulations [12, 13] in real networks and with the
approach followed by Bianconi and Zecchina [14].
Moreover, it most be mentioned that a more careful
analysis of the data may suggest that the distribu-
tion of averages ﬂuxes has a richer structure.
In
Figure 1.5 is presented the integrated distribution
function of the average ﬂuxes of the reactions and a
clear jump appears for ν ≈0.5, and smaller ones for
ν ≈0.4 and µ ≈0.6. Whether these jumps are just
due to normal statistical ﬂuctuations (and are cor-
rectly smeared out in the usual binning process done
to plot the pdf in log-log scale) or reﬂect relevant bi-
ological or structural information of the network is
not yet known.
Finally, we concentrated our eﬀorts in the study
the E-Coli central metabolism [11]. To simplify the
analysis of the results, all cofactors were removed
with the exception of ATP and ADP that have been
thus considered as output and input ﬂuxes respec-
tively.
Under these conditions, the network has
40 metabolites, 74 internal reactions and 10 exter-
nal ﬂuxes that were considered irreversible following
their nominal directions. The maximum ﬂuxes of all
the reactions were considered equal to 1.
We then studied the inﬂuence of knockouts on
the volume of the solution space. In each simulation
the values of the maximum ﬂux was kept constant
and equal to 1 for all the reactions but the one with
a knockout. For each knockout we assumed a reduc-
tion of the maximum permitted ﬂux qmax equal to
the 0.25 of the original value. We assumed that each
reaction is knockout independently, this, despite the
fact that it is known that some reactions are associ-
ated with the same enzyme.
The distribution of entropy change (∆S = SKO−
S0) of the solution space for the diﬀerent reaction
knock-outs turns out to show two possibilities: while
4

most of the reactions have ∆S > −3 and show little
and similar impact in the size of the solution space
a relevant fraction of them, has ∆S < −3 but with
a very uniform distribution. To understand if there
is any connection between these reactions with large
∆S and the structure of the network, we show in
Figure 1.6 the changes in S for the diﬀerent reaction
knock-outs. In the x−axis we plot the reactions nu-
merated and the lines indicate the values of ∆S for
each reaction. We annotate also these reactions with
∆S < −3. Most of them are associated with the
glycolysis pathway, being more speciﬁc, with those
reactions of the glycolysis process that show little
redundancy in the topology of the network. Other
reactions, like FUM, ACONT, SUC and SUCCD1i
appear in the Krebb cycle and again show little path-
way redundancy in the network.
Finally in Figure 1.7 we display the correlations
between the changes in the entropy for diﬀerent re-
action knock-outs and the most probable values ν∗
and the average values ¯ν of the ﬂuxes in the wild
network. As can be seen, two kinds of regimes are
divided by a clear threshold at ν ∼0.6 : A ﬁrst one,
for small ﬂuxes, that show consistent and slowly in-
creasing correlations between ν and ∆S, and a sec-
ond one for large ﬂuxes, where the correlations in-
crease rapidly but with large ﬂuctuations. The pres-
ence of this threshold can be understood noting that
reactions belonging to the linear (glycolysis) an cir-
cular (Krebb cycle) pathways are, in the wild cell,
fast-ﬂux reactions, with average values for the ﬂuxes
larger than 0.5. Therefore once they are knock-out,
the metabolic capacities of the network are highly
aﬀected.
Conclusions
We proposed a novel algorithm to estimate the
size and shape of the aﬃne space of a non full-
dimensional convex polytope in high dimensions.
The algorithm was tested in speciﬁc benchmark, i.e.
random diluted stoichiometric matrices at a given
ratio α = M/N and ﬁxed number of terms diﬀer-
ent from zero K, in each of the reactions, with re-
sults that compare very well with those of exact al-
gorithms. Moreover, we show that while the run-
ning time of exact algorithms increases more than
exponentially for already moderate sizes, our algo-
rithm keeps a polynomial behavior for sizes as large
as N = 120.
The program was run on the Red
Blood Cell metabolism, showing with less compu-
tational eﬀort, results that compare very well with
those previously obtained using Monte Carlo meth-
ods. Then, we calculate the distribution of the av-
erage values of the ﬂuxes in the metabolism of the
E-Coli and present results that are consistent with
those of the literature.
Finally, our program was
used to study the E-Coli central metabolism, and
we show that, as expected, reactions with little re-
dundancy are the ones with more impact in the size
of the space of the metabolic solutions. Speciﬁcally,
most of the reactions associated with the transfor-
mation of glucose in pyruvate, belong to this set, as
well as some reactions in the citric cycle. In addition
we show strong correlations between the characteris-
tics of the ﬂux distributions of the wild type network
and the changes in size of the space of solutions after
reaction knock-outs.
Let us conclude by noting that in principle the
presented approach can be extended to deal with
constraints whose functional form is more general
than linear, provided that the number of variables
involved in each of the constraints remains small, as
in the case of inequalities enforcing the second low
of thermodynamics for the considered reactions [15].
Work is in progress in this direction.
Methods
Volume computation
From a computational point of view, the problem of
the exact computation of the volume of a polytope
with current methods requires the enumeration of
all its vertexes. The vertex enumeration problem is
#P-hard [16,17], but even the problem of computing
the volume, given the set of all vertexes is a big com-
putational challenge.
Various algorithms exist for
calculating the exact volume of a polytope from its
vertexes (for a review see [18]), and many software
packages are available in the Internet.
Computa-
tional limitations restrict however exact algorithmic
strategies to cope with polytopes in relatively few di-
mensions (e.g N −M around 10 or so). To overcome
such severe limitations we will introduce a very eﬃ-
cient approximate computational strategy that will
allow us to compute the volume and the shape of the
space of solutions for real-world metabolic networks.
Although the coeﬃcient λ could be explicitely
calculated, it turns out that as far as only relative
volume quantities are concerned, as in the case of the
5

in silico ﬂux knock-outs introduced below, this term
factors out and therefore we will drop it from the rest
of the computation. If one is not interested in con-
stant prefactors, one can proceed as follows for the
integration of Eq. 6. Consider the regular orthogonal
grid Λϵ of side ϵ partitioning RN. This grid maps via
φ−1 into a partition Γϵ of φ−1(Π). The number of
cells Nϵ of Λϵ intersecting Π is equal to the numbers
of cells of Γϵ intersecting φ−1(Π). Finally, the vol-
ume in Eq. 5 is proportional to limϵ→0 ϵN−MNϵ. The
same applies to the computation of the marginal of
Eq. 7, now noting that the constant pre-factor does
not depend on νi. The reader may wonder why one
does not directly integrate Eq. 5 by using its right
hand side, the problem is that the change of coor-
dinates induced by φ may destruct the sparsity of
the original matrix sa,i, a condition that turns out
to be crucial for the kind of approximation that we
will use.
When dealing with integer coeﬃcients si,a, as the
ones appearing in stoichiometric relations, a further
simpliﬁcation in the approximate volume computa-
tion is possible: one can (always ingoring a constant
pre-factor) restrict further to integer solutions of the
system of equations. Geometrically, the space is tiled
with small hypercubes and we are actually counting
the number of hypercubes exactly fulﬁlling the sto-
ichiometric equations.
In summary, for any ϵ the
computation of an ϵ-approximation of the volume
has been recast into a discrete combinatorial opti-
mization problem that can described (with a slight
abuse of notation) by the same Eqs. 2 with now dis-
crete variables νi ∈{0, 1, ..., qmax
i
}, for qmax
i
equal to
the integer part of qmax × νmax
i
, where the integer
qmax is the granularity of the approximation.
Belief Propagation
The metabolic problem can be cast into a constraint
satisfaction framework where the M stoichiometric
relations impose a constraint onto a subset of the
metabolic ﬂuxes. Let A be the set of equations and
I the set of ﬂuxes. Consider the a-th row of ˆS, and
let {i1, . . . , ina} ≡{i ∈a} ⊂I be the labels of the
ﬂuxes involved in the considered equation having
stoichiometric coeﬃcients diﬀerent from zero.
Let
also {a1, · · · , ani} ≡{a ∈i} ⊂A be the labels of the
equations in which ﬂux i participates. The emerg-
ing structure is a bipartite graph, with two types
of nodes: variable nodes representing the ﬂuxes of
the reactions and factor nodes imposing mass con-
servation.
In this case marginals become q-modal
probability densities that for large values of qmax
i
will approximate better and better the continuous
set of probabilities.
Under the hypothesis that the factor graph is a
tree it can be shown [19,20] that a given ﬂux vector
ν satisfying all ﬂux-balance constraints can be ex-
pressed as a product of ﬂux and reaction marginals
[20–22]:
P(ν) =
Y
a∈A
Pa({νl}l∈a)
Y
i∈I
Pi(νi)1−di
(8)
where di is the number of equations in which ﬂux νi
participates (i.e. the degree of site i). The marginal
probabilities are deﬁned as:
Pi(νi)
=
X
{νj}j̸=i
P(ν)
Pa({νl}l∈a)
=
X
{νj}j̸∈a
P(ν) .
(9)
Belief Propagation (BP) is a local iterative algo-
rithm that allows for the computations of marginal
probability distributions, which is exact on trees,
and perform reasonably well on locally tree-like
structures [20–23]. This approximation scheme al-
lows the computation of the (logarithm of the) num-
ber of solutions via the entropy that can be expressed
in terms of ﬂux marginals:
S
≡
−
X
ν
P(ν) ln P(ν)
=
X
a∈A
X
{νj}j∈a
Pa({νj∈a}) log Pa({νj∈a})
−
X
i∈I
X
νi
(di −1)Pi(νi) log Pi(νi)
(10)
One may wonder how such an approach could be
useful in a real-world situation where the graph is
not a tree. Interestingly enough, metabolic networks
are sparse, i.e. the number of metabolites that typ-
ically participate to a certain reaction is small with
respect to the number of metabolites M, moreover
one can reasonably assume the typical loop length
to be large enough to ensure weak statistical depen-
dence of neighboring sites which lay at the heart of
the Bethe approximation [24, 25]. The algorithm is
based on two type of messages exchanged from vari-
able nodes to functional nodes, and vice versa:
• µi→a(ν): the probability that ﬂux i takes value
ν in the absence of reaction a.
6

• ma→i(ν): the non-normalized probability that
the balance in reaction a is fulﬁlled given that
ﬂux i takes value ν.
The two quantities satisfy the following set of func-
tional equations:
ma→i(νi)
=
X
{νl}l∈a\i
µl→a(νl) δ
 X
l∈a
sa,lνl ; ba

µi→a(νi)
=
Ci→a
Y
b∈i\a
mb→i(νi)
(11)
where Ci→a is a constant enforcing the normaliza-
tion of the probability µi→a(ν) and δ(· ; ·) is the Kro-
necker delta function. The set of equations 11 can
be solved iteratively and upon convergence of the
algorithm one can compute the marginal ﬂux distri-
butions as:
Pa({νl}l∈a)
=
X
{νl}l∈a
µl→a(νl) δ
 X
l∈a
sa,lνl ; ba

Pi(ν)
=
Y
l∈i
ml→i(ν) .
(12)
A brute force integration of the discrete set of equa-
tion would be much too ineﬃcient for analyzing large
networks, due to the multiple dimensional sum over
{0, . . . , qmax
l
}l∈a\i in the previous equation. A rel-
evant speed-up in the convergence of these equa-
tions can be achieved by noting that the convolution
product in 11 can be eﬃciently solved with a recur-
sion. Let us relabel the set of ﬂuxes in equation a as
{l ∈a} ≡{1, . . . , na} and let assume for the sake of
clarity that ba = 0:
R(k+1)(ν) =
qmax
kX
t=0
R(k)(ν −sa,kt)µk→a(t)
(13)
for k
∈
{0, . . . , na −1} and initial condition
R(0)(0) = 1.
The last step of the recursion gives
us ma→i(ν) = R(na)(ν).
The increase of perfor-
mance is substantial since brute force integration
involves a sum over Q
l∈a\i qmax
l
terms, while itera-
tion in Eq. refeq:iteration scales just as P
l∈a\i qmax
l
.
In some cases a faster convergence was met follow-
ing a reﬁnement strategy in the variable qmax
i
. In-
stead of choosing a large qmax
i
from scratch and to
solve the BP equations from random initial condi-
tions, the simulation starts using small qmax
i
that
are increased after convergence. Each time qmax
i
is
increased the BP equations are solved starting from
a function that ﬁts the previous solution. With this
strategy, networks as large as 40 metabolites and
120 reactions could be simulated in a couple min-
utes using a standard laptop.
It should be noted
that when the number na is large, the computations
of ma→i can be done substantially faster by means
of discrete Fourier transforms, reducing the compu-
tation time of all messages ma→i for i →a from the
needed na × P
l∈a\i qmax
l
operations to just around
2 × (P
l∈a qmax
l
)log(P
l∈a qmax
l
).
Authors contributions
Authors equally contributed to this work.
