Three-dimensional topological valley photonics 
Wenhao Li1,2,3,4, Qiaolu Chen1,2,3,4, Ning Han1,2,3,4, Xinrui Li1,2,3,4, Fujia Chen1,2,3,4, Junyao Wu1,2,3,4, 
Yuang Pan1,2,3,4, Yudong Ren1,2,3,4, Hongsheng Chen1,2,3,4,∗ Haoran Xue5,† and Yihao Yang1,2,3,4‡  
1 Interdisciplinary Center for Quantum Information State Key Laboratory of Extreme Photonics and 
Instrumentation ZJU-Hangzhou Global Scientific and Technological Innovation Center, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, China  
2 International Joint Innovation Center The Electromagnetics Academy at Zhejiang University. Zhejiang University, 
Haining, China  
3 Key Lab. of Advanced Micro/Nano Electronic Devices Smart Systems of Zhejiang Jinhua Institute of Zhejiang 
University, Zhejiang University, Jinhua, China  
4 Shaoxing Institute of Zhejiang University, Zhejiang University, Shaoxing, China and  
5 Department of Physics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong SAR, China 
 
Abstract 
Topological valley photonics, which exploits valley degree of freedom to manipulate electromagnetic waves, offers 
a practical and effective pathway for various classical and quantum photonic applications across the entire spectrum. 
Current valley photonics, however, has been limited to two dimensions, which typically suffer from out-of-plane 
losses and can only manipulate the flow of light in planar geometries. Here, we have theoretically and experimentally 
developed a framework of three-dimensional (3D) topological valley photonics with a complete photonic bandgap 
and vectorial valley contrasting physics. Unlike the two-dimensional counterparts with a pair of valleys characterized 
by scalar valley Chern numbers, the 3D valley systems exhibit triple pairs of valleys characterized by valley Chern 
vectors, enabling the creation of vectorial bulk valley vortices and canalized chiral valley surface states. Notably, the 
valley Chern vectors and the circulating propagation direction of the valley surface states are intrinsically governed 
by the right-hand-thumb rule. Our findings reveal the vectorial nature of the 3D valley states and highlight their 
potential applications in 3D waveguiding, directional radiation, and imaging.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
Inspired by the success of using valleys to manipulate 
electrons in two-dimensional (2D) materials, significant 
progress has been made in exploiting the valley degree 
of freedom in photonics, supplementing conventional 
ones such as amplitude, phase, polarization, and 
frequency, to control the flow of light [1–4]. 
Traditionally, a 2D valley photonic crystal (VPC) 
contains a single pair of valleys located at the corners of 
the 2D Brillouin zone (BZ). The Bloch modes around 
these valleys are described by two-band massive Dirac 
models, related by time-reversal symmetry and 
exhibiting opposite scalar band geometric properties, 
such as Berry curvature (Ω). This opposition leads to 
various physical behaviors that differ between the two 
valleys, known as valley-contrasting physics [1]. In 
photonics, two contrasting phenomena related to valley-
contrasting physics have been extensively studied. One 
is the formation of vortex states with valley-locked 
chirality, generated by the valley-contrasting orbital 
magnetic moment. The other phenomenon involves 
valley edge states, which are protected by the valley 
Chern number—a half-integer scalar topological 
invariant obtained by integrating the valley-contrasting 
Berry curvatures [5–19]. 
Valley photonics presents a readily accessible and 
effective method for achieving topologically robust 
photonic 
devices 
suitable 
for 
real-world 
applications [5,7,13,20]. 
Unlike 
other 
topological 
phases, such as photonic Chern insulators and photonic 
analogues of topological insulators, VPCs are more 
experimentally feasible because they do not necessitate 
breaking time-reversal symmetry or incorporating 

synthetic spin-orbital coupling. Instead, achieving 
VPCs simply requires a reduction of inversion 
symmetry, which guarantees the presence of local 
nonzero Berry curvature. These advantages make VPCs 
versatile across broad frequency ranges and adaptable 
to various material platforms, suitable for both classical 
and quantum photonics, enabling various applications, 
including lasers [10,11], on-chip communication [9,14], 
and quantum optics [8].  
While valley photonics has attracted tremendous 
attention, all previous studies were limited to 2D 
systems [2,3], where the photonic confinement along 
the third dimension is usually obtained in a 
nontopological way, such as the total internal reflection. 
These 2D valley systems typically support valley states 
with a single polarization, suffer from out-of-plane 
losses, and can only manipulate the flow of light in 2D 
planar 
geometries. 
Valley 
photonics 
with 
full 
confinement of light and full control of the flow of light 
can only be achieved by the complete photonic bandgap 
(in which light with any polarization is forbidden to 
propagate in any direction in three dimensions), which, 
however, remains a significant challenge. 
Here, we introduce a theoretical and experimental 
framework of three-dimensional (3D) topological 
valley photonics with a complete photonic bandgap. 
Our 3D framework goes beyond the binary valley 
degree of freedom and scalar valley-contrasting physics 
pictures in the 2D case. Specifically, instead of a single 
pair, our 3D model involves triple pairs of valleys at the 
corners of the 3D BZ. These pairs are differentiated by 
band geometric quantities along distinct directions, 
fully leveraging the vectorial nature of these quantities 
in three dimensions and introducing a vectorial valley-
contrasting physics perspective. Using the pump-probe 
measurement, we verify the vectorial valley-contrasting 
Berry curvature by selectively exciting and observing 
the chiral Bloch modes through the vectorial chiral 
source array. Also, we demonstrate the robust canalized 
valley surface states on all surfaces of a specifically 
shaped sample—a capability not previously achieved by 
any 3D photonic topological insulators, and reveal the 
right-hand-thumb rule relating the direction of the 
valley Chern vectors and the propagation loops of valley 
surface states.  
RESULTS 
We start from a 3D photonic crystal with lattice 
constant a = 20 mm, as illustrated in Fig. 1(a), and the 
lattice vectors are denoted as a1 = (a/2, a/2, 0), a2 = (0, 
a/2, a/2) and a3 = (a/2, 0, a/2). The photonic crystal is a 
sort of photonic “diamond” with both nearest-neighbor 
and next-nearest neighbour couplings, in which the 
carbon atoms and the bonds are replaced by perfect 
electric conductor (PEC) spheres and rods, respectively. 
Each face-centered-cubic (fcc) cell contains two spheres 
with diameters D1 and D2 (Fig. 1(a), right panel), 
respectively. Each nearest sphere is connected by PEC 
rods with diameter B1 = 2.4 mm. Additionally, we 
connect the next-nearest spheres by PEC rods with 
diameter B2 = 1.2 mm to suppress high-order modes, so 
that we can obtain a clean bandstructure where the 
topological bands are separated from the trivial 
bands [21].  
The band structure of the 3D photonic crystal is 
shown in Fig. 1(b). When ∆D = 0 (∆D ≡ |D1 − D2|), the 
inversion symmetry is preserved, and the photonic 
crystal hosts nodal lines along Wα± -X (α = x, y, z), 
forming intersecting nodal chains. The momentum of 
the six valleys are (±π/a, 2π/a, 0), (0, ±π/a, 2π/a), and 
(2π/a, 0, ±π/a) for Wx±, Wy±, and Wz±, respectively (Fig. 
1(c)). When ∆D ≠ 0, however, the inversion symmetry 
is broken, and the nodal line degeneracies are gapped 
out to form a complete photonic bandgap. The 3D 
gapped phase has six valleys at Wα±, which can be 
grouped pairwise, due to the time-reversal symmetry. 
We plot the distributions of Hz’s phase and Poynting 
vector in the x-y plane for the eigenstates at Wz± of the 
lower band in Fig. 1(d). One can see that both 
eigenstates display typical vortex profiles but opposite 
chirality, as required by the time-reversal symmetry. 
The Berry curvature at Wz± with nonzero component 
only in the kx-ky plane verifies the vectorial valley-
contrasting physics (Fig. 1(e)) [21]. 
 

 
FIG. 1. 3D VPC characterized by vectorial Berry curvatures. (a) Cubic cell. The left panel indicates the cubic cell consisting of two 
sublattices (denoted by blue and red spheres) with lattice constant a, and lattice vectors a1, a2, and a3. The cubic cell consists of a 
diamond-like lattice and a metallic mesh that connects two next-nearest-neighbour spheres in each sublattice (right panel). Gray fcc unit 
cell consists of two spheres. A cubic cell consists of four fcc unit cells. (b) Band structure of the 3D VPC. The gray and blue lines indicate 
the band structures when ∆D = 0 (D1 = D2 = 5 mm) and ∆D≠ 0 (D1 = 6.4 mm, D2 = 3.6 mm), respectively. (c) 3D BZ of the fcc unit cell. 
The six valleys are denoted by red and blue dots. The nodal lines are denoted by the dashed lines. (d) Simulated eigenstates on the (001) 
surface for the first band at Wz± valleys. The left panel shows the position in the z direction within a fcc unit cell. Red arrows indicate 
the Poynting vector, and the colors indicate the phase of Hz. (e) Simulated Berry curvature components of the first band at Wz±.
 
By applying the k · p method, we obtain the effective 
Hamiltonian near each valley: 
 
( )
,
D
x
D
y
z
W
v
q
v
q
m







= 
+
+
H
q
     (1) 
where (α, β, γ) = (x, y, z), (y, z, x), or (z, x, y), q = (qx, 
qy, qz) represents the momentum offset from each valley, 
vD is the group velocity, σx,y,z are Pauli matrices, and m 
= (ω1 − ω2)/2 is the mass term induced by breaking the 
inversion symmetry, with ω1,2 the angular frequencies 
of the two bands at the valleys [21].  
The different chirality of Bloch modes at each pair of 
valleys indicates the valley-chirality locking property. 
Consequently, the state at each valley can be selectively 
excited using a chirality-matched source array. To 
implement the phase winding on x-y, y-z, and x-z planes 
in experiments, the vectorial chiral source array is 
configured with four sources with the relative positions 
at (0, 0, 0), (−a/2, −a/2, 0), (−a/2, 0, −a/2), and (0, −a/2, 
−a/2). Taking valley states at Wy± as an example, the 
relative phase delay of each source is set to (0, π/2, π, 
3π/2) for Wy− and (0, −π/2, −π, −3π/2) for Wy+, to form 
a clockwise or counterclockwise phase winding in the 
x-z plane (see Fig. 2(a)). The excited valley states will 
outcouple to the free space radiation and, thus, the 
momentum of the excited valley state can be judged 
from the outcoupling direction (see Figs. 2(b) and (c)). 
As shown in Fig. 2(d), the measured outcoupling fields 
at 13.8 GHz exhibit different directions: for the 
clockwise (counterclockwise) phase winding, the 
direction is −32.9° (+32.9°), corresponding to Wy− 
(Wy+) , while for the case without phase winding, the 
direction is 0°, corresponding to X, since the states at X 
coexist with valley states at the same frequency [22]. 
The above phenomena can be well understood from the 
momentum-space analysis, where the valley state and 
the free-space radiation should share the same 
tangential momentum parallel to the boundary (e.g., the 
(001) surface) (see Fig. 2(b)). Furthermore, the 
directionality of the Bloch modes can be verified by the 
far-field radiation patterns, where the outcoupling 
directions agree well with the calculated results (see Fig. 
2(e)). Note that, unlike the 2D case where the radiation 
pattern is restrained only in the 2D plane and diverges 
in the vertical direction [7], the radiated beams in Fig. 
2(e) are single-directional in 3D space, which provides 

the opportunity for the directional antenna design. 
 
 
FIG. 2. Selective excitation of vectorial valley states. (a) 
Illustration of the vectorial chiral source array. The relative 
positions of four sources are denoted by four beacons. The colors 
of the beacons indicate the relative phase delay for Wy−. The 
arrow denotes the phase winding of Wy−. The next-nearest-
neighbor coupling rods are removed for clarity. (b) Momentum-
space analysis. The blue, black, and red dots indicate Wy−, X, and 
Wy+, respectively. The arrows represent the outcoupling 
directions. The dashed black arc denotes the free-space light 
dispersion at 13.8 GHz. (c) Experimental setup. Four scanned 
planes are labeled as φ = 90°, θ = −32.9°, θ = 0°, and θ = +32.9°. 
(d) Measured electric field distributions of outcoupling waves in 
the y-z plane. The dashed blue, black, and red arrows indicate the 
theoretical refraction direction, which is −32.9°, 0◦ , and +32.9° 
with respect to the z-axis, respectively. (e) Measured outcoupling 
far-field radiation patterns at Wy−, X, and Wy+ in planes in (c), 
respectively. 
The band topology of our 3D VPC can be manifested 
by the local Berry curvature around each valley [9], 
where our 3D VPC possesses vectorial Berry curvatures, 
i.e., Ω = (Ωx, Ωy, Ωz) (see Fig. 1(e)). By integrating the 
Berry curvature around each valley, 
 
1
( )
,
2
v
S
d

=

C
Ω q
S             (2) 
where S is a planar region around valleys normal to qx, 
qy, and qz, respectively. We calculate the valley Chern 
vector (VCV) [Cv = (Cvx, Cvy, Cvz)], which is (±1/2, 0, 
0), (0, ±1/2, 0), and (0, 0, ±1/2) for Wx±, Wy±, and Wz± 
valleys, respectively [21].  
For topological valley photonics, there are generally 
two approaches to the topological boundary states. One 
approach is forming a domain wall between two valley 
crystals with opposite valley Chern numbers, with the 
valley kink states appearing at the domain wall. The 
other approach is modifying the on-site boundary 
potentials of a valley crystal, with the chiral boundary 
states existing at the external surface, enabling compact 
photonic devices  [1,23].  
Here, we adopt the latter approach to facilitate the 
sample fabrication and experimental characterization. 
We first derive the general condition that the topological 
chiral surface states can exist on our 3D VPC. Without 
loss of generality, we consider the (001) surface [24], 
and the topological surface states, denoted as Φ, 
satisfying the equation HΦ = ωΦ, as well as the general 
boundary condition ˆ = 
M
 . Here, 
ˆ
z
=
M
 (σy sin 
θV + σz cos θV ), where θV phenomenologically 
represents the influences of the boundary condition on 
the surface states [13,20]. One can find that only when 
θV = π/2, Φ is a chiral surface state determined by the 
VCV with a linear dispersion 
2
(
)
D
v
v
=


S
q
C
 [S is 
the vectorial Miller index of surface, e.g., (−1, 0, 0) for 
the 
(100)   surface] [21]. To achieve the desired 
boundary condition in practice, we cover the (001) 
surface with a metallic plate and tune the diameter of the 
outmost metallic sphere, D3, and the distance between 
the plate and the outmost metallic sphere, h (see Figs. 
3(a) and (b)). Note that the metallic plate features 
perforations for inserting the source and probe, with a 
hole interval of a/2. We find that when h = 6.25 mm and 
D3 = 4 mm, the boundary condition can be satisfied [21]. 
Consequently, 
a 
linearly-dispersed 
valley-locked 
surface state traverses the bandgap (see Figs. 3(c) and 
(d)).  
We then perform experiments to demonstrate the 
chiral surface states from the VCV. The measured 
surface transmission, depicted in Fig. 3(e), maintains 
high within the complete photonic bandgap, while the 
bulk transmission is substantially lower, which verifies 

the existence of the surface states. We also map out the 
surface field distribution (Fig. 3(f)) and obtain its 
Fourier-transformed spectrum along L4- Wx−-L1 (Fig. 
3(g)). We can indeed observe a nearly-linear surface 
dispersion in the bandgap. Note that the chiral surface 
states exhibit canalization behaviour; that is, the surface 
states propagate diffractionlessly along the +y direction, 
corresponding to the Wx− valley. This canalization 
phenomenon is due to the flat isofrequancy contour of 
the surface states, which has been confirmed both 
experimentally and numerically (Fig. 3(h)) [25–27]. 
The canalization has previously been explored at the 
topological transition point between open hyperbolic 
and closed elliptical isofrequency contours, as in the 
twisted van der Waals bilayers [26]. From the equation 
of the surface states aforementioned, one can see that 
the surface dispersion is independent of the wavevector 
vertical to the propagation direction (denoted as kx (ky)), 
indicating that the group velocity of surface states 
preserves for different ky (kx) around each valley, which 
leads to the flat isofrequency contours. Thus, the 
canalization is an intrinsic property of our surface states, 
presenting promising opportunities for imaging and 
lensing [21,26,28]. 
 
 
FIG. 3. Observation of the canalized chiral valley surface states. (a) 3D VPC with the modified (001) surface. The surface is covered by 
a metallic plate. h and D3 are key parameters to modify the boundary condition. (b) Experimental setup. (c) Projective surface BZ onto 
the (001) surface. The blue lines indicate the simulated isofrequency contour of the surface dispersion at 14.6 GHz. The gray region 
represents the projective BZ. (d) Simulated surface dispersion. The gray areas and the blue line represent the bulk states and the surface 
states, respectively. (e) Normalized measured transmission. The shadowed area denotes the bulk bandgap. (f) Measured field distribution 
at 14.6 GHz. The dashed line represents the propagation direction of the canalized surface states. (g) Measured (colormap) and simulated 
(blue line) surface dispersion around Wx− valley. (h) Measured (colormap) and simulated (blue lines) isofrequency contour of surface 
dispersion at 14.6 GHz. The dashed square represents the first BZ.
Unlike the existing 3D topological photonic 
insulators [29–34] in which the topological surface 
states can only exist on certain surfaces, the 3D VPCs 
with certain shapes can support the chiral valley surface 
states on all sample surfaces. Obviously, our fabricated 
sample can support the chiral valley surface states on all 
(100), (010), and (001) surfaces, with the propagation 
direction locked to each valley. For instance, the surface 
states at Wx− valley could propagate along +y direction 
on the (001) surface, and subsequently along −z 
direction on the (010) surface, without experiencing 
intervalley scattering, then along −y direction on the 

( 001 ) surface and +z direction on the (010 ) surface, 
which forms a closed loop. One can see that the 
direction of VCVs and the circulating direction of the 
valley surface states can be related by the right-hand-
thumb rule; that is, the right-hand-thumb points to the 
direction of VCVs, the curling fingers point to the 
circulating direction of the valley surface states (see Fig. 
4(a)). Note that the right-hand-thumb rule applies to all 
sample surfaces (see Fig. 4(a)). Physically, this right-
hand-thumb rule is an intrinsic relation between the 
VCVs and the valley surface states, which are both 
determined by the bulk Hamiltonian [21].  
 
FIG. 4. Right-hand-thumb rule relating the robust chiral valley 
surface states with the VCVs. (a) Illustration of the direction of 
VCVs and the propagation loops of valley surface states at three 
pairs of valleys, respectively. The thin red (blue) arrows denote 
the Wα+ (Wα−) valley states. The thick arrows in insets denote the 
direction of VCVs, where the corresponding loops’ direction 
obeys the right-hand-thumb rule. (b) Measured field distribution 
before (#1) and after (#2) the bend. The dashed lines represent 
the propagation direction of the surface states. (c) Measured 
transmission of the bulk states and surface states before and after 
the bend. The blue and red lines represent surface states before 
and after the bend, respectively. The gray line represents the bulk 
states. The shadowed area represents the bulk bandgap. (d) 
Measured isofrequency contours of the field distribution before 
(top panel) and after (bottom panel) bend at 14.6 GHz. The 
carnation arrows represent the direction of the group velocity 
which is normal to the isofrequency contours. The blue dots 
represent Wx− valley. The dashed squares represent the first BZ. 
The blue lines represent the simulated isofrequency contours. 
To experimentally observe the right-hand-thumb rule, 
we position the source at the center of the (001) surface 
and measure the field distributions on the different 
sample surfaces (i.e., (001) and (010) surfaces), as 
shown in Fig. 4(b). The excited surface states propagate 
along the +y direction, corresponding to Wx− valley. 
Owing to the valley conservation, the surface states 
smoothly pass through the sharp corner with high 
transmission (see Fig. 4(c)) and propagate along the −z 
direction. We also perform Fourier transform on the 
field distributions on the (001) and (010) surfaces, 
respectively. As depicted in Fig. 4(d), on both surfaces, 
only the surface states around the Wx− valley are excited, 
experimentally revealing the valley-locking property. 
Crucially, as the Wx− valley carries a VCV (−1/2, 0, 0) 
and the valley surface states circulate clockwise on the 
y-z plane, the direction of the VCV and the circulating 
direction of the valley surface states obey the right-
hand-thumb rule as aforementioned. 
DISCUSSION 
In summary, we have developed both theoretically 
and experimentally the concept of 3D topological valley 
photonics. From an application perspective, the orbital 
moments carried by the 3D valley states provide a 
means to control the angular momentum of light, and 
the highly directional outcoupling from these valley 
states can serve as a mechanism for creating narrow-
beam antennae. Additionally, the robust 2D canalized 
valley chiral surface states may inspire innovative 3D 
topological photonic devices for guiding and trapping 
light in an unprecedented way. Though demonstrated at 
lower frequencies, the concept of 3D valley photonics 
can be readily extended to higher frequencies, including 
terahertz and optical ranges, where all-dielectric 
diamond-like 3D photonic crystals with complete 
photonic bandgaps have already been extensively 
studied [35]. 
