arXiv:1009.1309v1  [cond-mat.soft]  7 Sep 2010
epl draft
Statistical mechanics of two-dimensional foams
Marc Durand
Mati`ere et Syst`emes Complexes (MSC), UMR 7057 CNRS & Universit´e Paris Diderot, 10 rue Alice Domon et L´eonie
Duquet, 75205 Paris Cedex 13, France, EU
PACS 05.65.+b – Self-organized systems
PACS 83.80.Iz – Emulsions and foams
PACS 45.70.Qj – Pattern formation
PACS 02.70.Rr – General Statistical Methods
Abstract. - The methods of statistical mechanics are applied to two-dimensional foams under
macroscopic agitation.
A new variable - the total cell curvature - is introduced, which plays
the role of energy in conventional statistical thermodynamics.
The probability distribution of
the number of sides for a cell of given area is derived. This expression allows to correlate the
distribution of sides (“topological disorder”) to the distribution of sizes (“geometrical disorder”)
in a foam. The model predictions agree well with available experimental data.
Introduction. –
Foams and related physical systems
(like emulsions, biological tissues, or polycrystals) are
ubiquitous, and serve as a paradigm for a wide range
of physical phenomena and mathematical problems [1–4].
One of them deals with the general topological and ge-
ometrical properties of cellular materials [5–12]. In this
connection, Quilliet et al. [5,6] studied recently the topo-
logical features of two-dimensional (2D) soap froths un-
der slow oscillatory shear.
Such macroscopic strain in-
duces rearrangements within the foam, and the number of
sides of every cell evolves in time through local topological
changes (T 1 events) [1,13,14]. Nevertheless, Quilliet et al.
reported the existence of an equilibrium state after few
cycles, characterized by a stationary probability distribu-
tion of the number of sides per cell (topological disorder).
They also showed that the width of this distribution of
sides is strongly correlated to the distribution of bubble
sizes (geometrical disorder) within the foam. These results
suggest that the macroscopic state of a homogeneously
sheared foam can be adequately described using the ideas
and formalism of statistical thermodynamics. Indeed, the
pioneering work of Edwards on granular matter [15] has
shown how the powerful arsenal of statistical physics can
be extended to athermal systems. This method has proven
its applicability to other ﬁelds as well [16]. Because there
is no thermal averaging due to Brownian motion, this ap-
proach requires the presence of a macroscopic agitation
(analogue to an eﬀective temperature) allowing the sys-
tem to explore its entire phase space.
Various attempts have been made in the past to de-
scribe the geometrical and topological properties of 2D
foams using the concepts of statistical thermodynamics
[17–22]. However, these former theoretical approaches rely
on strong assumptions: either they use an ad-hoc inter-
action potential between bubbles [17, 18], involve (rather
than deduce) empirical laws correlating size and side dis-
tributions [19–21], or ignore some geometrical constraints
(for instance, only the mean bubble area is speciﬁed, not
the individual bubble areas [19, 20, 22]).
Some of these
models are based on the maximum entropy (information
theory) formalism [19,20], which has been subject to con-
troversy [23].
Other models invoke minimisation of the
energy [21], or a combination of both principles [22] to
describe the state of a foam. However, it has been estab-
lished [12,24–27] that diﬀerent arrangements (topologies)
of a large number of bubbles do not really aﬀect the energy
(see discussion below). Furthermore, none of these models
can account for the correlations between topological and
geometrical disorders reported by Quilliet et al. [5,6].
In this letter we set up a framework for describing the
equilibrium state of a two-dimensional foam, basing our
development on analogies with conventional statistical me-
chanics. As for other athermal systems [15, 16], we show
that the energy is not relevant to describe the macroscopic
state of a foam. Instead, a more appropriate state vari-
able is introduced: the total cell curvature. We establish
the function of state which is minimized for a ﬁnite cluster
of bubbles at equilibrium. This thermodynamic potential
p-1

Marc Durand
function diﬀers from entropy or energy used in previous
theories. The formalism developed here allows to derive
an analytical expression for the distribution of the num-
ber of sides. We show that the semi-empirical expression
conjectured by other authors [17, 18, 28, 29] is recovered,
in a certain limit. Finally, the bubble size-topology corre-
lations deduced from the present theory are investigated,
and compared with experimental data.
Physical,
geometrical,
and
topological
con-
straints. –
Consider a given set of NB bubbles with pre-
scribed areas {Ai} (we focus on time scales much shorter
than those typical of bubble coarsening and coalescence,
so the bubbles preserve their integrity and size1). A 2D
foam is a partition of the plane without gaps or overlaps,
and its structure must obey certain constraints [1] (one
considers the dry foam limit where liquid volume fraction
is negligible).
The physical constraints follow from the
mechanical equilibrium throughout the system: ﬁrst, the
balance of ﬁlm tensions at every vertex implies that the
edges, or Plateau borders, are three-connected making an-
gles of 120◦with each other (Plateau’s laws). Then, the
balance of gas pressures in adjacent bubbles implies that
every edge is an arc of circle, whose algebraic curvature
κij is proportional to the pressure diﬀerence between the
two adjacent bubbles i and j (Laplace’s law):
κij = −κji = Pj −Pi
γ
,
(1)
where γ is the ﬁlm tension, and Pi and Pj are the pressures
in bubble i and j, respectively (by convention, κij ≥0
when the center of curvature is outside the cell i, i.e.: when
Pj ≥Pi). As a consequence, the algebraic curvatures of
the three edges that meet at the same vertex must add to
zero:
κij + κjk + κki = 0.
(2)
The foam must also satisfy topological and geometri-
cal requirements: apart from the constraint of prescribed
areas, its structure must obey Euler’s rule, which relates
the number of bubbles NB, with those of Plateau borders
NP b, and vertices Nv: NB + Nv −NP b = c, where c is
the Euler-Poincar´e characteristic (c = 0 for a torus, c = 2
for an inﬁnite plane). This rule, combined with Plateau’s
laws, immediately gives:
NP b = 3(NB −c).
(3)
Finally, the Gauss-Bonnet theorem applied to a n-sided
cell yields Pn
j=1 lijκij = π(n −6)/3, where lij denotes the
length of the edge common to bubbles i and j.
Microcanonical ensemble (NB, κtot, Ns). –
In sta-
tistical mechanics, the most fundamental entry is certainly
1Rigorously, the area and pressure of a cell vary from one conﬁg-
uration to another; only the number of molecules of gas it contains
remains unchanged. We consider that the area ﬂuctuations are small
so that each bubble can be identiﬁed by its area.
via the microcanonical ensemble. Suppose that the foam
is agitated slowly as compared to the characteristic relax-
ation time after a T 1 process [1,13,14] (one considers only
perturbations that preserve the area of every bubble, and
so the total foam area). Then, the deformation of the foam
is quasistatic: its structure evolves through conﬁgurations
which always satisfy the physical, geometrical and topo-
logical constraints stated above. Such conﬁgurations will
be referred to as accessible microstates.
By analogy with the fundamental postulate of statisti-
cal mechanics [30], we hypothesize that all the accessible
microstates of a given set of bubbles ﬁlling the 2D space
have equal probability, under a slow macroscopic agita-
tion. Obviously, a periodic or inﬁnite foam ﬁlls the 2D
space. It must be pointed out that the postulate applies
to a free cluster too, provided that the surrounding air is
included as a supplementary bubble. Then, this “extra
bubble” must also be taken into account in the counting
of the number of accessible microstates. In the following,
an inﬁnite or periodic foam, or a free cluster plus the sur-
rounding air shall be referred to as an unbounded foam.
Conversely, a free ﬁnite cluster, a cluster within a larger
foam, or a foam enclosed in a container shall be referred
to as a bounded foam. Figure 1 summarizes the diﬀerent
kinds of boundaries that exist for a 2D foam.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 1: Various situations for the boundary of a 2D foam. (a):
inﬁnite or periodic foam. (b): free cluster (ﬁgure taken from
[25]). (c): cluster of bubbles within a larger foam. (d): foam
enclosed in a container. Situation (a) is referred to as an un-
bounded foam, while situations (c) and (d) are referred to
as bounded foams. Situation (b) is either an unbounded or
bounded foam, depending on whether or not the surrounding
air is included as a supplementary bubble.
Rigorously, the accessible microstates do not all corre-
spond to the same total surface energy. It is tempting, by
analogy with the statistical mechanics of a gas, to restrict
p-2

Statistical mechanics of two-dimensional foams
the equiprobability hypothesis to the microstates of equal
energy. This reﬁnement appears to be unnecessary: pre-
vious studies have shown that diﬀerent arrangements of a
large number of bubbles of given areas do not aﬀect the
energy very much2: in their computational studies of 2D
foams under shear, Jiang et al. [27] reported energy ﬂuctu-
ations less than 2%. Graner et al. [25] obtained the same
results, both numerically and experimentally: the energy
values of the diﬀerent metastable states of a 2D foam lie
within 2% of the “ground state” value. Kraynik et al. [12]
conducted similar studies on 3D foams, and reported ﬂuc-
tuations below 4% for the surface energy of every bubble.
These observations are also consistent with the so-called
“equation of state” of a foam [25,31–33], which relates sur-
face energy E, areas Ai, and pressures Pi within a cluster
of bubbles: E = P
i (Pi −P0) Ai, where P0 is the exter-
nal pressure. In the limit of ﬁxed bubble pressures, the
total surface energy of such a cluster would be conserved.
Hence, to a ﬁrst approximation, one can reasonably as-
sume that the energy of a large cluster does not depend
on its conﬁguration, but is directly determined from the
number of bubbles NB and the area distribution p(A).
On a macroscopic scale, the state of the foam should be
described by a limited number of independent variables
(besides the number of bubbles and the size distribution).
These quantities must be “constants of motion” [30], i.e:
they must keep constant values throughout the dynamics
of the system (here, a slowly agitated foam). An impor-
tant observation is that one can deﬁne two independent
quantities which are conserved for an unbounded foam.
The ﬁrst one is the total number of sides Ns = P
i ni,
where ni is the number of sides of bubble i.
One has
Ns = 2NP b for an unbounded foam (Ns, and not NP b, is
an extensive and ﬂuctuating variable for a ﬁnite cluster).
Thus, according to Eq. (3), Ns = 6(NB −c). The second
one is the total cell curvature κtot = P
i κi, where κi is
the cell curvature of bubble i, deﬁned as:
κi =
X
j∈N(i)
κij,
(4)
N(i) denoting the neighbouring cells of bubble i. Obvi-
ously, κtot is additive. Since κij = −κji, the terms cancel
in pairs in the double sum, yielding κtot = 0 for an un-
bounded foam. The property κij = −κji correlates the
two adjacent bubbles that share a common edge.
It is
also important to note that – regardless of this mathe-
matical property – the constraint κtot = 0 is also imposed
by the curvature sum rule (2), as it is illustrated on Fig.
2.
This rule, which correlates the three adjacent bub-
bles that share a common vertex, has a physical origin
(Laplace’s law). Although it is unclear whether Ns and
κtot are the only constants of motion for an unbounded
foam, the constraints Ns = 6(NB −c) and κtot = 0 must
be taken into account in the statistical description of such
2Actually, there is also some uncertainty on the value of the en-
ergy of an isolated volume of gas [30].
a system. Surprisingly enough, the constraint on the total
curvature has always been ignored in previous theoretical
models [17–22].
Fig. 2: Illustration of the equivalence (for an unbounded foam)
between the sum (over all vertices) P
α Sα and the sum (over
all cells) κtot = P
i κi, where Sα denotes the sum – turning
clockwise – of the algebraic curvatures κij + κjk + κki between
the three bubbles i, j, k that share the same vertex α, while κi
denotes the cell curvature of bubble i (see Eq. (4)). Each term
κij in the ﬁrst sum is represented by an arrow pointing from
i to j. The equivalence between the two sums is immediate:
the cell curvature κi of cell i is represented by the collection
of arrows coming out of that cell.
For an unbounded foam
at mechanical equilibrium, the curvature sum rule (2) yields
Sα = 0 at every vertex α, and thus κtot = 0.
In the light of this discussion, we may restate the pos-
tulate as: all the accessible states of a given set of NB
incompressible cells corresponding to the same values of
Ns and κtot are equally probable, under macroscopic agita-
tion. By analogy with thermal physics, the microcanonical
ensemble (NB, κtot, Ns) refers to a large number of copies
of a foam (with given bubble size distribution p(A)) whose
parameters NB, κtot, and Ns are ﬁxed.
Thermodynamic limit. –
For a bounded foam, κtot
reduces to the sum of the side curvatures along its bound-
ary. Both Ns and κtot are ﬂuctuating variables, although
their values are usually restricted within a certain range.
For instance, for a free cluster, Ns < 2NP b and κtot < 0
since the pressure in any bubble of the cluster is higher
than the external pressure [34].
For a cluster within a
larger foam, Ns < 2NP b, but κtot can be positive or
negative. For a foam enclosed in a container, κtot = 0
(the container walls can be regarded as zero curvature
sides), but Ns ﬂuctuates.
One can argue whether or
not the ﬂuctuations of Ns and κtot become negligible in
the thermodynamic limit (NB →∞, total surface area
Atot →∞, but ⟨A⟩= Atot/NB remains ﬁnite). The av-
erage number of sides of a large cluster (NB ≫1) scales
as ⟨Ns⟩∼NB, while the total curvature, equal to the
sum of the side curvatures along the cluster boundary,
scales as ⟨κtot⟩∼
p
NB/⟨A⟩. The relative standard devi-
p-3

Marc Durand
ations of such quantities scale as N −1/2
B
[30]. Thus, the
ﬂuctuations of Ns and κtot become vanishingly small as
NB →∞. Moreover, their thermodynamic limit values
are known: ⟨Ns⟩/NB →6, and ⟨κtot⟩/NB →0.
Note
however that ⟨N ∗
s ⟩/N ∗
B ∼N ∗
B
0 converges much faster than
⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B ∼N ∗
B
−1/2.
Idealized foam. –
In order to obtain the probability
distribution of the number of sides for a cell of given size,
we need to enumerate the microstates which correspond to
the same macroscopic state. Ideally, a microstate is spec-
iﬁed by the curvature, length, position and orientation
of each Plateau border. However, this description is too
cumbersome to handle. Moreover, even for a given foam
topology, the number of diﬀerent accessible microstates
depend in a non-trivial way on boundary conditions (e.g.:
free, periodic, or enclosed cluster) and bubble size distri-
bution [25,35–38].
i
j
k
i
j
k
(a)
(b)
Fig. 3: (a): Real two-dimensional foam under shear.
(b):
Idealization of the foam (mean-ﬁeld approximation): adjacent
bubbles i, j and k are now regular cells surrounded by an ef-
fective foam and disconnected from each other.
We shall use a simpliﬁed microscopic description of the
foam: we consider that for each particular bubble i, the
rest of the foam can be replaced on average by a “mean
ﬁeld” of identical bubbles. Thus, the bubble i is a regular
cell with identical curved sides joining at each vertex with
angles of 120◦, as sketched on Fig. 3b. The cell curvature
of a n-sided regular cell with area A is [22,25]:
κ (A, n) = π
3
n (n −6)
e(n)
√
A
,
(5)
where e(n) = π|n−6|
3√n

π
n −π
6 −sin(π/n−π/6) sin(π/6)
sin(π/n)
−1/2
is
the elongation of the cell (ratio of perimeter to square-
root of area). e(n) is a slowly decreasing function, lying
between e(3) ≃3.74 and e(∞) ≃3.71 [25].
It can be
noticed that while the (surface) energy of such a bubble
(∼e(n)
√
A) is almost independent of n, its cell curva-
ture κ (A, n) increases rapidly with n, and is not upper-
bounded.
In this idealized foam description, each bubble is “dis-
connected” from the others. By construction, all the phys-
ical, geometrical and topological constraints are satisﬁed,
except the curvature sum rule (2) and the Euler-Plateau
relation (3), which both involve adjacency of the bubbles.
Consistent with the discussion above, the accessible mi-
crostates of a foam tiling the entire plane are those which
satisfy Ns = 6(NB −c) and κtot = 0 (the number of bub-
bles is large enough so Ns and κtot can be treated as con-
tinuous variables). A microstate of the idealized foam is
speciﬁed by the numbers of sides {ni} of all the bubbles.
Hence, the number of accessible microstates is obtained by
enumerating the distributions of the Ns = 6(NB −c) sides
over the NB bubbles which satisfy the constraint κtot = 0.
This number is not easy to evaluate, and a grand-canonical
description shall be more appropriate.
Grand-canonical ensemble
 NB, β−1, µ

. –
Con-
sider then a sample of N ∗
B bubbles in the unbounded foam
(the asterisk denotes the variables of this grand-canonical
ensemble). This sample can be a cluster of bubbles, or a
collection of isolated bubbles. Let p∗(A) be the distribu-
tion of bubble size within this sample. Although N ∗
B is
ﬁxed, this system can exchange sides and curvature with
the rest of the foam, through T 1 events. Hence, the to-
tal number of sides N ∗
s and the total curvature κ∗
tot are
now internal variables free to ﬂuctuate for this system3.
We assume that possible other variables required to de-
scribe the macroscopic state remain ﬁxed. Surface energy
in particular does not ﬂuctuate, since it depends only on
N ∗
B and the distribution p∗(A), and not on the speciﬁc
conﬁguration of the system.
Suppose that the rest of
the foam is large in comparison with the system, so that
it constitutes a reservoir of sides and curvature.
Using
the formalism of conventional statistical mechanics [30], it
comes that the probability for the system to be in the mi-
crostate
 n1, n2, . . . , nN ∗
B

is proportional to e−βκ∗
tot+µN ∗
s ,
with κ∗
tot = PN ∗
B
i=1 κ(Ai, ni) and N ∗
s = PN ∗
B
i=1 ni. β−1 and µ
(rigorously, µβ−1) denote respectively the “temperature”
of the reservoir of curvature, and the “chemical potential”
of the reservoir of sides. A large number of copies of a foam
whose parameters
 NB, β−1, µ

are ﬁxed shall be referred
to as a grand-canonical ensemble. As noticed before, the
cell curvature of a bubble is not upper-bounded as n →∞,
what ensures that the temperature β−1 is always positive
[30]. Finally, the probability for a given cell of size A to
have n sides is:
pA(n) = χ−1(A)e−βκ(A,n)+µn,
(6)
where χ(A) = P
n≥3 e−βκ(A,n)+µn denotes the parti-
tion function of the cell.
The average total cell cur-
vature and average number of sides are, respectively,
⟨κ∗
tot⟩= −∂ln Ξ/∂β and ⟨N ∗
s ⟩= ∂ln Ξ/∂µ, with ln Ξ =
N ∗
B
R ∞
0
p∗(A) ln χ(A)dA.
Ξ is the partition function of
the system. Using the formalism of conventional statisti-
cal mechanics [30], one concludes that the thermodynamic
3N∗
s and κ∗
tot are independent variables: there are diﬀerent ways
of distributing N∗
s sides over N∗
B bubbles; each of these distributions
corresponds to a diﬀerent value of κ∗
tot.
p-4

Statistical mechanics of two-dimensional foams
Table 1: Statistical description of an ideal gas and a 2D foam.
ideal gas
2D foam
source of
ergodicity
Brownian
motion /
collisions
macroscopic
shear / T1
events
constants
masses {mi}
areas {Ai}
degrees of
freedom
positions and
momenta
{ri, pi}
side numbers
{ni}
ﬁxed
parameters
(microcanoni-
cal
ensemble)
energy E,
number of
molecules N,
volume V
total curvature
κtot, number of
sides Ns,
number of
bubbles NB
ﬁxed
parameters
(grand-
canonical
ensemble)
temperature T ,
chemical
potential µ,
volume V
eﬀective
temperature
β−1, eﬀective
chemical
potential µ,
number of
bubbles NB
equilibrium of a foam in contact with a reservoir of curva-
ture and sides coincides with the minimum of the thermo-
dynamic potential Φ = −β−1 ln Ξ. The analogy between
the statistical descriptions of an ideal gas and a 2D foam
is summarized in Table 1.
As noted by Graner and coworkers [25], the elongation
of a regular cell is almost constant: e(n) ≃e ≃3.72. With
this simpliﬁcation, the total surface energy of the cluster
is strictly conserved (i.e., it does not depend on the cluster
conﬁguration). Besides, the distribution (6) simpliﬁes to
pA(n) = χ′−1 (A) e−β′(n−6)2+µ′(n−6),
(7)
with χ′ = χe−6µ, β′(A) = πβ/(3e
√
A) and µ′(A) =
µ −2πβ/(e
√
A). This is the exact distribution intuited
independently by Schliecker and Klapp [17,18] and Sher-
rington and coworkers [28,29], except that here β′ and µ′
explicitly depend on the bubble size A. Such a dependence
is necessary to reﬂect the correlations between bubble size
and bubble shape which have been observed experimen-
tally [5, 6]. It can be noted that the average number of
sides n(A) = P
n⩾3 npA(n) increases with A.
This re-
sult is consistent with experimental observations [1, 39]:
larger bubbles have more sides since they are surrounded
by smaller bubbles.
It must be pointed out that the present theory contains
no free parameters in the thermodynamic limit: ⟨N ∗
s ⟩/N ∗
B
and ⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B have known values, and β and µ are di-
rectly obtained by extremizing the grand-canonical en-
tropy per bubble
S(β, µ) =
Z ∞
0
p∗(A) ln χ(A)dA + β ⟨κ∗
tot⟩
N ∗
B
−µ⟨N ∗
s ⟩
N ∗
B
, (8)
with ⟨N ∗
s ⟩/N ∗
B = 6 and ⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B = 0.
Discussion.
–
The expression (7) allows to de-
duce the distribution of number of sides per cell p(n)
from the distribution of bubble size p(A) [p(n)
=
R ∞
0
p(A)pA(n)dA], and thus to correlate topological and
geometrical disorders.
Let us study the implications
of the present theory with the simple case of an inﬁ-
nite/periodic monodisperse foam: p(A) = δ(A −A0). In
that case, the thermodynamic limit values ⟨N ∗
s ⟩/N ∗
B = 6
and ⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B = 0 give, respectively, ⟨n −6⟩= 0 and
⟨(n−6)2⟩= 0. Thus, the distribution of side number tends
to the Kronecker delta distribution: p(n) = pA0(n) = δn,6.
As expected, all the bubbles of an unbounded monodis-
perse foam have hexagonal shape.
0.4
 
n
p(n)
∆A/⟨A⟩
∆n/⟨n⟩
Fig. 4: Theoretical and experimental distributions p(n). The
experimental distribution is taken from [5].
The theoreti-
cal distribution is obtained by ﬁtting the function p(n) =
R ∞
0
p(A)pA(n)dA to the data.
Inset:
topological disorder
∆n/⟨n⟩vs geometrical disorder ∆A/⟨A⟩for four diﬀerent
foams. Black dots: obtained from theory; red curve: power-
law ﬁt a (∆A/⟨A⟩)b, with a = 0.30 ± 0.03 and b = 0.74 ± 0.08;
blue curve: linear ﬁt a∆A/⟨A⟩+ b, with a = 0.30 ± 0.02 and
b = 0.03 ± 0.01.
We also compare the model with the four experimen-
tal distributions reported in the Quilliet et al. paper [5].
Foam samples contain a few hundreds of bubbles. This
number is large enough to consider that ⟨N ∗
s ⟩/N ∗
B ≃6,
but not large enough to assume that ⟨κ∗
tot⟩
p
⟨A∗⟩/N ∗
B ≃0.
Since the ﬁnite value of ⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B is unknown, β and µ
cannot be obtained by extremizing S(β, µ). Instead, they
are obtained by ﬁtting the theoretical distribution of sides
p(n) =
R ∞
0
p(A)pA(n)dA – in which p(A) is the experi-
mental size distribution, and pA(n) is given by Eq. (7)
– to the data.
Regression is performed under the con-
straint P
n≥3 np(n) = 6, so there is only one adjustable
parameter really. Fig. 4 compares a theoretical distribu-
tion p(n) obtained this way with the corresponding exper-
imental distribution taken from [5]. The theoretical curve
reproduces the experimental data well. Comparison of the
model with the other distributions of [5] (not shown here)
gives similar results. We also plotted the relative standard
deviation ∆n/⟨n⟩=
p
⟨n2⟩−⟨n⟩2/⟨n⟩of the theoretical
p-5

Marc Durand
distributions, as a function of the relative standard devia-
tion ∆A/⟨A⟩of the size distributions for the four samples
(inset of Fig. 4). A power-law ﬁt of this plot is in good
agreement with the relationship found by Quillet et al.:
∆n/⟨n⟩= 0.27 (∆A/⟨A⟩)0.8. However, it can be noticed
that the power-law ﬁt can be hardly distinguished from a
linear ﬁt.
In summary, we developed a theoretical model to de-
scribe the state of a two-dimensional foam under slow ag-
itation, using a formulation closer to conventional statis-
tical mechanics than information theory. We show that
the total number of sides and the total cell curvature
– rather than energy – are the relevant variables to de-
scribe the macroscopic state of a foam. The distribution
of sides of a cell of given size is derived. This result allows
to correlate the size and shape distributions.
Theoreti-
cal size-topology relations deduced from the theory are
in very good agreement with existing experimental data.
However, a free parameter has been added for the com-
parison with experiments, due to the indeterminacy of
the experimental values of ⟨κ∗
tot⟩/N ∗
B. Furthermore, the
grand-canonical description requires that 1 ≪N ∗
B ≪NB.
This condition cannot be checked on the available data.
Further experiments taking these considerations into ac-
count should allow to conﬁrm the validity of the present
(zero-free-parameter) model.
The formalism developed here can be extended to three-
dimensional foams, and to coarsening (and coalescing)
foams. Coarsening has consequences for the size-topology
correlations particularly, since the average area of n-sided
cells increases more rapidly in that case [6,39,40]. Exten-
sion of this formalism to other cellular systems (concen-
trated emulsions, cell aggregates) is also under investiga-
tion.
∗∗∗
I wish to thank J. B. Fournier, F. Graner and F. Van
Wijland for useful discussions and suggestions.
