Uniﬁcation of the phonon mode behaviour in semiconductor alloys
O. Pag`es,∗M. Kassem, A. Chaﬁ, A. Nassour, S. Doyen and A. V. Postnikov
Laboratoire de Physique des Milieux Denses,
Universit´e Paul Verlaine – Metz,
1 Bd. Arago, F-57078 Metz, France
This work concludes a series of systematic re-examinations of the Raman/Infrared spectra of
representative semiconductor alloys in the traditionally admitted classiﬁcation of phonon mode
behaviour, i.e.
In1−xGaxAs (1-bond→1-mode), In1−xGaxP (modiﬁed 2-mode) and presently
ZnTe1−xSex (2-bond→1-mode), based on a crude description of the alloy disorder at the macro-
scopic scale in terms of the virtual crystal approximation (VCA). Here we show that the latter
alloy obeys the same phonon mode behaviour as the former two, thereby a universal one, of a
percolation type (1-bond→2-mode). The ‘VCA→Percolation’ change of paradigm confers to vi-
brational spectroscopies the attractive privilege to provide natural insight into the alloy disorder
at the unusual mesoscopic scale, with potential interest for the study of the long scale (self)
organization in alloys, in general.
The key issue regarding mixtures is how to handle the
substitutional disorder. For natural mixtures, of a forbid-
ding complexity at the microscopic scale, a percolation-
based approach was developed at the mesoscopic scale.1
The central notion is the volume fraction of each con-
stituent. Singularities in the physical properties are ex-
pected at the percolation thresholds, at which composi-
tions the minor constituents coalesce into a continuum.
Surprisingly, for those ideally-disordered mixtures that
are usual semiconductor (SC) AB1−xCx alloys (atoms in
substitution on a regular lattice), made of the two in-
terpenetrating A and (B,C) cfc sublattices, the virtual
crystal approximation (VCA) seems suﬃcient, in ﬁrst
approximation. With this, each atom A is surrounded
by four virtual B1−xCx atoms, i.e. the crystal is viewed
at the macroscopic scale as a continuum (Fig. 1a). The
physical properties are accordingly averaged. No singu-
larity is expected in their dependence on x.
Here, we focus on the bond force constant (K) in
SC alloys. K is sensitive to the bond distortion (bond
length plus bond angles) required to accommodate the
mismatch in the A-B and A-C bond lengths, and as
such provides an integrated insight into the substitutional
disorder.(a)
K is routinely probed by Raman and In-
frared (IR) spectroscopies, via the frequency of the trans-
verse optical (TO) phonon.(b) The VCA for K leads to
a 1-bond→1-mode TO behaviour, as accounted for by
the modiﬁed-random-element-isodisplacement (MREI)
model.2 Only one adjustable parameter is needed per
bond, i.e. the frequency of the impurity mode ωimp –
see Methods. The MREI-VCA supports a classiﬁcation
of the TO-Raman/IR data in terms of 2-mode (pure
1-bond→1-mode) (i),
mixed-mode (2-bond→1-mode)
∗Author to whom correspondence should be addressed:
e-mail: pages@univ-metz.fr
(a) A simple rule is ‘the closer the atoms, the larger K’.
(b) A TO mode in the Raman/IR spectra corresponds to out-of-
phase vibrations of the A and (B,C) sublattices, perpendicular
to the direction of propagation.
(ii) and dominant-plus-minor mixed-modes (modiﬁed-2-
mode) (iii) – see Methods. Representative systems are
In1−xGaxAs, ZnTe1−xSex and In1−xGaxP, respectively
(ref. 3).
Elliott et al.
(ref. 4) worked out a theoreti-
cal criterion within the coherent potential approximation
FIG. 1 Schematic views of a AB1−xCx alloy according to the
VCA (a) and percolation (b) approaches. We use a simple
greyscale code. In the alloy the greyscale reinforces when the
local composition becomes more like that of the corresponding
pure crystal. A correlation with the dependence of the A-C
TO-frequency (ω) on the actual alloy composition x (a) or on
re-scaled alloy compositions y and z (b) is indicated. A similar
description applies to the A-B TO-frequency. Subscript and
superscript B (C) refer to the A-B (A-C) bond species and to
the – pale – B-rich (– dark – C-rich) region, respectively. In
case (b) critical behaviours occur at the A-C (xC=0.19) and
A-B (xB=0.81) bond percolation thresholds.
arXiv:0709.0930v1  [cond-mat.mtrl-sci]  6 Sep 2007

2
(CPA)(c) that predicts type (ii) when the A-B and A-C
optical bands overlap in the alloy, type (i) otherwise.(d)
The MREI-VCA (experimental) and Elliott-CPA (theo-
retical) classiﬁcations were found to be remarkably con-
sistent, except for InGaP.
From the Elliott–CPA cri-
terion, InGaP should be of type (ii). However, careful
analysis of the Raman/IR data reveals that even the ac-
cepted representative alloys we discuss do not ﬁt into
the MREI-VCA/Elliott-CPA classiﬁcation.(e) Our view
is that the VCA misses the essence of the phonon be-
haviour in alloys.
Recognizing the local character of
K we conclude that the proper understanding of TO
phonons requires insight into the topologies of the (B,C)-
substituting species, which falls into the scope of the
percolation site theory.8 Precisely, the apparent anoma-
lies in InGa(As,P) could be explained within a so-called
1-bond→2-mode percolation model,9 introducing a de-
scription of an alloy at the mesoscopic scale, as a com-
posite (Fig. 1b). Two adjustable parameters are required
per bond, i.e. ωimp plus the splitting ∆between like TO
modes in the dilute limit – see Methods.
Here, we investigate whether the percolation scheme
for InGa(As,P) is fortuitous, i.e.
contingent upon the
(Ga,In)-substituting species for some reason, or reﬂects
a deeper – universal – reality by extending further to
the representative system of the remaining class (ii), i.e.
ZnTeSe. The perspective is a change of paradigm regard-
ing the way to describe phonons in alloys.
Percolation picture for ZnSeTe
The context is favourable for the detection of a possible
1-bond→2-phonon behaviour in ZnTeSe. Indeed the lat-
tice mismatch in ZnTeSe is similar to that of InGa(As,P),
i.e. ∼7%, so that similar lattice distortions can be ex-
(c) As the CPA is well-suited mainly for the treatment of low concen-
tration of simple defects in otherwise perfect media, the Elliott-
CPA criterion aims at deriving the whole phonon mode behaviour
of an alloy from its behaviour in the dilute limits.
(d) Here, the optical bands are simply build up by linear extrapola-
tions of the frequencies of the transverse optical (TO) and longi-
tudinal optical (LO) modes in the pure crystal onto the related
impurity frequency. The LO phonon corresponds to out-of-phase
vibrations of the A and (B,C) sublattices along the direction of
propagation. In a polar crystal it diﬀers from a TO mode in that
it carries a long range polarization ﬁeld ⃗E due to the ionicity of
the bond. In a pure crystal this is responsible for an additional
coulombian restoring force, with the result that the LO mode
vibrates at a higher frequency than the TO mode. In an alloy
the LO mode is a more complicated issue, as discussed at the
end of the manuscript.
(e) There are three features in the TO Raman spectra of InGaAs,
instead of two.5 Also, the IR spectra of ZnTeSe exhibit two clear
resonances, not only one.6 At last, the minor mode of InGaP was
identiﬁed by ab initio calculations as a pure Ga-P mode, not as
a (In-P,Ga-P)-mixed mode.7
FIG. 2 TO (thick lines)/LO (thin lines) percolation picture
for ZnTe1−xSex. Representative sets of TO (open symbols)
and LO (ﬁlled symbols) frequencies taken from the literature,
as indicated, are added. The fraction of bonds corresponding
to each TO branch is indicated on the right side. ZnTe:Se
(ZnSe:Te) is the notation for the impurity mode of Se (Te) in
ZnTe (ZnSe).
pected, and thereby also similar phonon properties.(f) In
fact, already three decades ago Artamonov et al. (ref. 12)
did mention an ‘evident analogy’ between the phonon
mode behaviours of InGaP and ZnTeSe. Also, recently
Yang et al. (ref. 13) proposed to re-classify ZnTeSe as a
type (iii) system, not as a type (ii). Altogether this sug-
gests that a InGaP-like version of the percolation model
should apply to ZnTeSe.
Representative sets of optical-phonon frequencies in
ZnTeSe, taken in the literature, are displayed in Fig. 2.
In the discussion of the phonon mode behaviour, we focus
on the TO modes, the longitudinal optical [LO, note (d)]
modes follow.
The data indicate three equally spaced
TO modes in the range 180–200 cm−1, that blue-shift
when the Se content increases.
We propose a three-
oscillator [1 (Zn-Te), 2 (Zn-Se)] version of the percola-
tion model, with a unique TOZn−Te branch below a well-
resolved Zn-Se TO double-branch (see details below).
Bonds are longer (shorter) in environments rich of the
shorter (longer) bonds,9,14 which reduces (enlarges) the
TO frequency. So, the middle and upper TO branches are
due to Zn-Se vibrations in the Se- and Te-rich regions, ac-
cordingly labelled as TOSe
Zn−Se and TOTe
Zn−Se. The (ωimp,
∆) values for the Zn-Te and Zn-Se bonds are (∼189 cm−1,
∼0 cm−1) and (∼195 cm−1, ∼8 cm−1), respectively.
(f) Further, the dispersion of the TO mode is small in ZnSe
(∼6 cm−1) and ZnTe (∼8 cm−1) (ref. 10), so that even small
ﬂuctuations in the local bond distortion may generate ﬂuctua-
tions in the TO frequency larger than the dispersion, thereby
giving rise to phonon localization, i.e. to diﬀerent TO modes in
the Raman/IR spectra.11

3
The ωimp values were estimated by relying on thorough
extended X-ray absorption ﬁne structure (EXAFS) mea-
surements of bond length in ZnTeSe.15 The shift of an
impurity mode with respect to the TO mode in the pure
crystal was inferred from the related diﬀerence in bond
length δ via the TO mode Gr¨uneisen parameter γ in the
pure crystal, by using Eq. (2) in ref. 9. For the Zn-Te
(Zn-Se) bond, δ and γ are 2.480–2.452 ˚A (2.600–2.643 ˚A)
and 1.4 (1.7), according to refs. 15 and 16, respectively.
Now, we turn to ∆.
The lower set of TO data
is attached to the limit (x∼0,1) Zn-Te frequencies at
its two ends, indicating an apparent 1-bond→1-mode
MREI behaviour for the Zn-Te bond, which comes to
∆Zn−Te ∼0 cm−1. The remaining sets of TO data share
quasi-symmetrically on each side of the limit Zn-Se fre-
quencies, indicating a well-resolved 1-bond→2-mode type
behaviour for the Zn-Se bond, i.e. a ﬁnite ∆Zn−Se value.
This was adjusted to ∼8 cm−1 by ﬁtting a rescaled-MREI
curve to the data in the continuum regime of the domi-
nant TOSe
Zn−Se branch at large Se content. The remaining
pieces of the Zn-Se double-branch, i.e. the two dispersion
regimes plus the rescaled-MREI curve in the continuum
regime of the TOTe
Zn−Se branch, were directly inferred –
see Methods.
The agreement between the TO (thick lines) / LO (thin
lines) theoretical curves and the data is rather good, in
spite of the simplicity of our model. Slight discrepancy
exists with respect to the TOTe
Zn−Se branch in the Te-
dilute limit, where the mode becomes weak and hard to
detect. In Fig. 2 the [Zn-Te, (Zn-Se)Se, (Zn-Se)Te] TO-
frequency information is completed on the TO-intensity
side by the terms within brackets – see Methods.
(TO,LO) Raman lineshapes
All the ingredients are there to calculate the TO and
LO Raman lineshapes of random ZnTeSe. We use the
generic expression of the Raman cross section given by
Eq. (1) in ref. 9. In a form restricted to the second mem-
ber it gives access to the TO modes; in full it provides
the LO modes. We use a classical form of the dielectric
function, generalized to three harmonic oscillators. For a
direct comparison with the Raman spectra we take Zn-
Se and Zn-Te phonon dampings that scale like in pure
crystals, i.e. 3:1, as inferred from the full widths at half
maximum of the LO Raman lines (compare Figs. 1 in
refs. 17 and 18). The remaining (CF−H, ϵ∞, TO–LO)
values for the pure ZnSe and ZnTe crystals, with the
usual notation,9 are (−0.56, 5.75, 206–252 cm−1) and
(−0.32, 7.20, 176–206 cm−1), respectively.(g) The result-
ing three-mode TO and LO Raman lineshapes are shown
in Fig. 3. We use small dampings for the Zn-Te (1 cm−1)
(g) CF−H is taken as the ratio of the ionic to electronic parts of the
static electro-optic eﬀect, as calculated by Shih et al. (ref. 19).
and Zn-Se (3 cm−1) modes, for a clear overview of the
whole collection of oscillators.
First, we discuss brieﬂy the LO modes (thin lines in
Figs 2 and 3). In a multi-wave system, such as an alloy,
the electric ﬁeld ⃗E is well-known to act as a carrier of
coherence,20 that makes LO modes [see note (d)] a com-
plicated issue.9 This is especially true in ZnTeSe because
the Zn-Se and Zn-Te oscillators are so close. Therefore
the individual LOZn−Te, LOSe
Zn−Se and LOTe
Zn−Se modes
(not shown) do ⃗E-couple strongly, with the result that
the available oscillator strength, independently of its ori-
gin, i.e. ZnSe- or ZnTe-like, is almost fully channelled
into a ‘giant’ LO+ mode at high frequency.
This ex-
hibits a model type (ii) behaviour, as is obvious in Fig. 3,
certainly the origin of the MREI-VCA classiﬁcation of
ZnTeSe. Residual LOint. and LO−modes, in the sense of
decreasing frequencies, are driven back towards the TO
modes.
On the basis of Fig. 3, we re-assign the presumed
unique TO mode in the Raman/IR spectra of ZnTeSe as
the sum of close TOZn−Te and TOSe
Zn−Se modes. In fact
the bi-modal character was already obvious in the Raman
spectra recorded by Artamonov et al. (ref. 21). The two
modes exhibit antagonist strength variations when the
composition changes, and have similar heights at ∼70%
Se, consistently with experimental observations.21 An ad-
ditional minor LO-TO inverted oscillator within the main
TO-LO band, evidenced by using IR reﬂectivity,6 is as-
signed as the LOint. –TOTe
Zn−Se band.
The LO-TO in-
FIG. 3 TO (thick lines) and LO (thin lines) Raman line-
shapes calculated for ZnTe1−xSex from Fig. 2 by using Zn-Se
and Zn-Te phonon dampings that scale as in the pure crys-
tals, i.e. 3:1. The bottom LO mode is divided by 2, as in-
dicated. The ZC TO-DOS obtained per atom at x∼0.5 by
using uniformly-damped Zn, Se and Te oscillators, is shown
in the inset for comparison, together with the corresponding
quasi-random supercell. There, the arrows indicate a three-
oscillator behaviour.

4
verted splitting is large at intermediate composition, and
further increases with the Te content, as evidenced by
Burlakov et al.
(ref. 6).
Then it vanishes in the di-
lute limits, as observed by Yang et al.
(ref. 13).
In
brief, all the ‘anomalous’ features in the Raman/IR spec-
tra of ZnTeSe ﬁnd a natural assignment in terms of al-
lowed modes within the percolation picture, on a quan-
titative basis. Actually, there is a quasi-perfect analogy
between the phonon mode behaviours of ZnTeSe and In-
GaP (ref. 9).
To secure a basis of our discussion on TO modes we
provide independent ab initio insight into the TO density
of states (TO-DOS) at the zone-center (ZC), that com-
pares directly to the Raman signal, in a fully-relaxed 32-
atom supercell (volume and internal coordinates) at the
representative composition x∼0.5. The Se and Te atoms
are equally distributed over all substituting planes, as ex-
pected in a random alloy. We apply the plane-wave pseu-
dopotential method within the density functional the-
ory and the local density approximation (LDA), and a
linear response technique.22 The ZC TO-DOS obtained
per atom for uniformly-damped Zn, Se and Te oscillators
(∼10 cm−1) are displayed in the inset of Fig. 3, together
with the supercell. As expected, three equidistant oscil-
lators spaced by ∼10 cm−1, with similar strengths, i.e. a
ZnTe-like below two ZnSe-like ones (refer to the arrows
in the inset of Fig. 3), show up. A slight overall blue-
shift of the ZC TO-DOS with respect to the correspond-
ing Raman lineshape (∼20 cm−1) is due to a well-known
overbinding in LDA. We have checked that the interplay
between the frequencies and strengths of the three oscil-
lators in the ZC TO-DOS and the phenomenological TO
Raman lineshapes are consistent over the whole compo-
sition domain.
Percolation vs. Elliott-CPA and MREI-VCA
The percolation schemes for InGaAs, InGaP and
ZnTeSe are schematically reproduced in Fig. 4.
Only
the TO branches are shown, for clarity, while simplifying
the continuum regimes to straight lines – see Methods.
There is an obvious analogy between the three schemes,
indicating that the traditional MREI-VCA/Elliott-CPA
classiﬁcation has, in fact, no raison d’ˆetre.
Still, the percolation schemes must be consistent with
the latter classiﬁcation, which we discuss now. In both
InGaAs and InGaP, the impurity modes stay out of the
parent TO-LO bands, so that the Ga- and In-related TO-
LO bands in the alloy (shaded areas in Figs 4a and 4b)
do not overlap. In contrast the Zn-Se and Zn-Te TO-LO
bands do overlap in ZnTeSe (refer to the over-shaded area
in Fig. 4c). This is consistent with the Elliott-CPA classi-
ﬁcation of InGa(As,P) and ZnTeSe as types (i) and (ii),
respectively.
The percolation schemes are also consis-
tent with the MREI-VCA classiﬁcation. It is just a mat-
ter of regrouping close individual/double TO branches as
shown by ovals in Fig. 4. The usual terminology of indi-
FIG. 4 Simpliﬁed 1-bond→2-mode TO (thick lines) percola-
tion schemes of InGaAs (a), InGaP (b) and ZnTeSe (c). The
generic fraction of bonds corresponding to each TO branch is
indicated in part (b). The bond-related optical bands simply
obtained by linear convergence of the parent TO and LO fre-
quencies onto the related impurity frequencies are shown as
shaded areas.
vidual modes [(i), Fig. 4a], dominant-plus-minor modes
[(iii), Fig. 4b] and mixed-mode [(ii), Fig. 4c] comes out
naturally.
A probable reason why diﬀerences in the detail of the
phonon mode behaviours of InGaAs, InGaP and ZnTeSe
were previously mistaken for diﬀerences in the principles
of the phonon mode behaviours lies in an implicit, but
wrong, assumption that the TO and LO modes behave
similarly in an alloy. In particular, in the LO symmetry a
strong ⃗E-coupling occurs between the like LO modes that
come from the same double-branch, because these refer to
the same bond species and as such have close frequencies.
The result is that the actual 1-bond→2-mode behaviour
visible in the TO symmetry, supporting a description of
the phonon mode behaviour at the mesoscopic scale on a
percolation basis, is literally rubbed out in the LO sym-
metry. What is left is an apparent 1-bond→1-mode LO
behaviour, encouraging a more crude description at the
macroscopic scale according to the MREI-VCA. Due to
this TO vs. LO duality, any attempt to explain the TO
and LO modes in an alloy on the same intuitive basis
is damned to fail. Simplicity arises by focusing on TO
modes; LO modes follow.
In brief, we show that ZnTeSe obeys the 1-bond→2-
phonon percolation model, as InGaAs and InGaP do.
We propose a three-oscillator [1 Zn-Te, 2 Zn-Se] ver-
sion, supported by existing EXAFS data and home-made
ab initio phonon calculations. This leads to uniﬁcation
of the traditional MREI-VCA/Elliott-CPA classiﬁcation
into a single class covered by the percolation model. It
emerges that even those ideally-disordered systems that
are the usual SC alloys can not escape a description of
some of their very basic physical properties via a percola-
tion concept. As such, they do not diﬀer fundamentally
from other mixtures, contrarily to a broadly accepted as-
sumption. On the practical side, this work reveals that

5
vibrational spectroscopies provide natural insight (non
destructive and contactless) into the alloy disorder at the
unusual mesoscopic scale, which is hardly achieved oth-
erwise. This oﬀers an attractive perspective for the study
of the long scale (self-) organization in alloys, be it local
ordering9 or anti-clustering.23
The authors acknowledge support from the IFCPAR
(N◦3204-1) and the CINES (N◦pli2623).
Methods
MREI-VCA (TO) model: The VCA for a bond-related
property, such as K, comes to a picture where the
bond is immersed into a continuum whose properties
are smoothly x-dependent (Fig. 1a).
The bonds of
like species are all equivalent, thereby contributing to
a unique TO-Raman/IR mode. The intensity scales as
the corresponding fraction of bonds, and when x changes
the mode shifts smoothly between the parent and impu-
rity limits. No singularity is expected. A short (long)
impurity bond is tensed (compressed) in a matrix with
a large (small) lattice constant, which reduces (enlarges)
K, with concomitant impact on ωimp [see note (a)]. Gen-
erally ωimp remains close to the parent TO-frequency,
because each bond tends to keep its natural bond length
in an alloy.
So, the trend in a ‘TO-frequency vs.
x’
plot is that the A-B and A-C TO branches remain quasi-
parallel, with slight, but ﬁnite, slopes.
TO-based MREI-VCA classiﬁcation: Two main types of
TO behaviour proceed from the MREI-VCA: (i) If the
parent TO frequencies are much distinct, the alloy ex-
hibits well-separated A-B and A-C TO branches, corre-
sponding to a typical 1-bond→1-mode behaviour. (ii) If
the parent TO frequencies are close enough, the A-B and
A-C TO branches merge into an apparent 2-bond→1-
mode behaviour with a unique (A-B, A-C)-mixed TO
mode that has quasi-stable strength, and shifts regularly
between the parent TO modes. There seems to exist an
intermediary-type behaviour, referred to as (iii), with
two (A-B, A-C)-mixed TO modes, i.e. a dominant one
of type (ii), plus a minor one that does not allow to fully
discard type (i). While the MREI-VCA model fully ac-
counts for types (i) and (ii), it can not account for type
(iii), even qualitatively.
Percolation (TO) model: This distinguishes between vi-
brations of like bonds within the naturally-formed B-rich
and C-rich regions (Fig. 1b), the result of diﬀerent lo-
cal bond distortions.
In a ‘TO-frequency vs.
x’ plot,
this results in a splitting of each MREI-like TO branch
into a symmetrical double-branch, attached at its two
ends to the parent and impurity modes. The strength of
each ‘sub-mode’ scales as the corresponding B-rich (x)
or C-rich region (1-x). Singularities in the TO-frequency
occur at the bond percolation thresholds (PT’s), where
the minor A-B (xB=0.19) or A-C (xC=0.81) bonds be-
come connected throughout the crystal. Below the PT,
the minor region consists of a dispersion of ﬁnite clus-
ters with similar structures, which generates invariance
in the TO-frequency. Above the PT, the ﬁnite clusters
coalesce into a continuum whose local composition turns
smoothly x-dependent, as does the TO-frequency.
A
rescaled-MREI approach applies where the continuum,
viewed as a pseudo-alloy, takes an apparent composition
varying from 0 to 1 over its domain of existence (refer to
y, z in Fig. 1b).
Ab initio protocol for a self-consistent percolation model:
For straightforward data-independent (Raman/IR) in-
sight into ωimp. and ∆in any zincblende alloy we pro-
pose here a simple protocol based on ab initio bond
length/phonon calculations in prototype fully-relaxed su-
percells at the dilute limits. We use 64-atom supercells,
that are well-converged in size for such purpose.24 The
calculations are performed by using the computer code
Siesta within the LDA (ref. 25).
To access ωimp. we use a supercell containing a sin-
gle impurity (∼3% imp.). This is the ultimate conﬁg-
uration that refers to an impurity in the region rich of
the other substituting species. We search for the impu-
rity bond length, and we estimate ωimp. via γ as usual
(see main text).
A direct calculation of the impurity
frequency ωcalc.
imp. does not help here, due to the eﬀective
overbinding in LDA.
To access ∆we use a supercell containing two neigh-
bouring substitutional impurities.
This pair forms the
germ of the impurity-rich region, i.e. the ultimate con-
ﬁguration that refers to an impurity staying in its own
environment. We search for the frequency of the phonon
mode along the chain of the two impurity bonds, referred
to as ωcalc.
pair , and ∆is estimated as
ωcalc.
imp. −ωcalc.
pair
. The
systematic error due to LDA is thus eliminated.
We have checked that the theoretical and experimental
(ωimp, ∆) values for random InGaAs, InGaP and ZnTeSe,
and also (Zn,Be)-chalcogenides that exhibit a unusually
large contrast in the bond properties, agree within ∼5%.
This validates the ab initio protocol. Together with it,
our phenomenological percolation model forms a self-
consistent model for the calculation of the 1-bond→2-
mode Raman/IR behaviour in any zincblende alloy. This
can be viewed as a sophistication to the mesoscopic scale
of the traditional 1-bond→1-mode MREI model, that op-
erates at the macroscopic scale.
