 
 
 
Abstract—Noise is an important factor which when get added to 
an image reduces its quality and appearance. So in order to enhance 
the image qualities, it has to be removed with preserving the textural 
information and structural features of image. There are different types 
of noises exist who corrupt the images. Selection of the denoising 
algorithm is application dependent. Hence, it is necessary to have 
knowledge about the noise present in the image so as to select the 
appropriate denoising algorithm. Objective of this paper is to present 
brief account on types of noises, its types and different noise removal 
algorithms. In the first section types of noises on the basis of their 
additive and multiplicative nature are being discussed. In second 
section a precise classification and analysis of the different potential 
image denoising algorithm is presented. At the end of paper, a 
comparative study of all these algorithms in context of performance 
evaluation is done and concluded with several promising directions 
for future research work. 
 
Keywords— Noise, Textural information, Image denoising 
algorithm, Performance evaluation. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
VERY large portion of digital image processing is 
deployed in image restoration. Image restoration is the 
removal or reduction of degradations which occurred while 
the image is being obtained [1]. Degradation in image comes 
from blurring as well as noise due to electronic and 
photometric sources. Blurring is a form of bandwidth 
reduction of the image caused by the imperfect image 
formation process such as relative motion between the camera 
and the original scene or by an optical system that is out of 
focus [2]. When aerial photographs are produced for remote 
sensing purposes, blurs are introduced by atmospheric 
turbulence, aberrations in the optical system and relative 
motion between camera and ground. In addition to these 
blurring effects, the recorded image is corrupted by noises too. 
A noise is introduced in the transmission medium due to a 
noisy channel, errors during the measurement process and 
 
Vivek Kumar  is Lecturer and TPO with Laxmipati Group of Institutions, 
RGTU, 
Bhopal-462021, 
INDIA 
(Phone: 
+91 
9098374992; 
e-mail: 
kunwarv4@gmail.com).  
Pranay Yadav  is with TIT College, RGTU, Bhopal-462021, INDIA (E-
mail: pranaymedc@gmail.com). 
Atul Samadhiya  is with, IES college Bhopal-462021, INDIA (e-mail: 
aswoodstock40@gmail.com). 
Sandeep Jain is with LIST college, RGTU, Bhopal-462021, INDIA (e-
mail: jainsandeep10@hotmail.com). 
Prayag Tiwari  was with Millennium College, RGTU, Bhopal-462021, 
INDIA (E-mail: prayagtiwari2012@gmail.com). 
during quantization of the data for digital storage. Each 
element in the imaging chain such as lenses, film, digitizer, 
etc. contributes to the degradation. Image denoising is often 
used in the field of photography or publishing where an image 
was somehow degraded but needs to be improved before it can 
be printed. Image denoising finds applications in fields such as 
astronomy where the resolution limitations are severe, in 
medical imaging where the physical requirements for high 
quality imaging are needed for analyzing images of unique 
events, and in forensic science where potentially useful 
photographic evidence is sometimes of extremely bad quality 
[2]. A two-dimensional digital image can be represented as a 
2-dimensional array of data s(x, y), where (x, y) represent the 
pixel location. The pixel value corresponds to the brightness 
of the image at location (x, y). Some of the most frequently 
used image types are binary, gray-scale and color images [3]. 
Binary images are the simplest type of images and can attain 
only two discrete values, black and white. Black is represented 
with the value „0‟ while white with „1‟. Normally a binary 
image is generally created from a gray-scale image. A binary 
image finds applications in computer vision areas where the 
general shape or outline information of the image is needed. 
They are also referred to as 1 bit/pixel images. 
Gray-scale images are known as monochrome or one-color 
images. They contain no color information. They represent the 
brightness of the image. An image containing 8 bits/pixel data 
means that it can have up to 256 (0-255) different brightness 
levels. A „0‟ represents black and „255‟ denotes white. In 
between values from 1 to 254 represent the different gray 
levels. As they contain the intensity information, they are also 
referred to as intensity images. 
Color images are considered as three band monochrome 
images, where each band is of a different color. Each band 
provides the brightness information of the corresponding 
spectral band. Typical color images are red, green and blue 
images and are also referred to as RGB images. This is a 24 
bits/pixel image. 
II.    ADAPTIVE AND MULTIPLICATIVE NOISE  
Basically the noises that corrupt the image are adaptive and 
multiplicative in nature. In this section all the major types of 
noises are being discussed.  
A. Gaussian Noise 
All Gaussian noise is evenly distributed over the signal [3]. 
Comparative Performance Analysis of Image 
De-noising Techniques 
Vivek Kumar, Pranay Yadav, Atul Samadhiya, Sandeep Jain, and Prayag Tiwari 
A 
International Conference on Innovations in Engineering and Technology (ICIET'2013) Dec. 25-26, 2013 Bangkok (Thailand)
http://dx.doi.org/10.15242/IIE.E1213576
47

 
 
This means that each pixel in the noisy image is the sum of the 
true pixel value and a random Gaussian distributed noise 
value. As the name indicates, this type of noise has a Gaussian 
distribution, which has a bell shaped probability distribution 
function given by,  
 ( )  
 
√      (   )                      ( ) 
Where g represents the gray level, m is the mean or average 
of the function and σ is the standard deviation of the noise. 
Graphically, it is represented as shown in Fig.1. When 
introduced into an image, Gaussian noise with zero mean and 
variance as 0.05 would look as in Fig.1. Fig-2 illustrates the 
Gaussian noise with mean (variance) as 1.5 (10) over a base 
image with a constant pixel value of 100. 
 
      Fig. 1 Gaussian distribution 
 
         
              
 
 
 
 
B. Salt and Pepper Noise 
    Salt and pepper noise [3] is an impulse type of noise, which 
is also referred to as intensity spikes. This is caused generally 
due to errors in data transmission. It has only two possible 
values a and b. The probability of each is typically less than 
0.1. The corrupted pixels are set alternatively to the minimum 
or to the maximum value, giving the image a “salt and pepper” 
like appearance. Unaffected pixels remain unchanged. For an 
8-bit image, the typical value for pepper noise is 0 and for salt 
noise 255. The salt and pepper noise is generally caused by 
malfunctioning of pixel elements in the camera sensors, faulty 
memory locations, or timing errors in the digitization process. 
The probability density function for this type of noise is 
shown in Fig-3. Salt and pepper noise with a variance of 0.05 
is shown in Fig-4. 
 
Fig. 3 Probability density function for salt and pepper noise 
 
 
Fig. 4  Illustration of salt and pepper noise 
 
C. Speckle Noise 
Speckle noise [4] is a multiplicative noise. This type of 
noise occurs in almost all coherent imaging systems such as 
laser, acoustics and SAR (Synthetic Aperture Radar) imagery. 
The source of this noise is attributed to random interference 
between the coherent returns. Fully developed speckle noise 
has the characteristic of multiplicative noise. Speckle noise 
follows a gamma distribution and is given as; 
 ( )  
    
(   )     (   )              ( ) 
where variance is      and g is the gray level. On an image, 
speckle noise (with variance 0.05) looks as shown in Fig-6. 
The gamma distribution is given below in Fig-5. 
 
 
Fig. 5  Gamma distribution 
 
    
 
Fig. 6  Illustration of speckle noise 
D. Brownian Noise 
Brownian noise [5] comes under the category of fractal or 
1/f noises. The mathematical model for 1/f noise is fractional 
Brownian motion [Ma68]. Fractal Brownian motion is a non-
Fig. 2 (a) Gaussian noise    
 
     (b) Gaussian noise             
(Mean=0, variance 0.05)            (Mean=1.5, variance 10) 
International Conference on Innovations in Engineering and Technology (ICIET'2013) Dec. 25-26, 2013 Bangkok (Thailand)
http://dx.doi.org/10.15242/IIE.E1213576
48

 
 
stationary 
stochastic 
process 
that 
follows 
a 
normal 
distribution. Brownian noise is a special case of 1/f noise. It is 
obtained by integrating white noise. It can be graphically 
represented as shown in Fig-7. On an image, Brownian noise 
would look like Fig-8 which is developed from Fraclab [6]. 
 
 
Fig. 7  Brownian noise distribution 
 
 
Fig. 8  Illustration of Brownian noise 
III. CLASSIFICATION OF DENOISING ALGORITHMS 
On the basis of Fig.-1, it is obvious that there are two basic 
approaches of image denoising, spatial filtering methods and 
transform domain filtering methods. 
A. Spatial Filtering 
A traditional way to remove noise from image data is to 
employ spatial filters. Spatial filters can be further classified 
into non-linear and linear filters. 
1. Non-Linear Filters 
With non-linear filters, the noise is removed without any 
attempts to explicitly identify it. Spatial filters employ a low 
pass filtering on groups of pixels with the assumption that the 
noise occupies the higher region of frequency spectrum. 
Generally spatial filters remove noise to a reasonable extent 
but at the cost of blurring images which in turn makes the 
edges in pictures invisible. In recent years, a variety of 
nonlinear median type filters such as weighted median [8], 
rank conditioned rank selection [9], and relaxed median [10] 
have been developed to overcome this drawback. 
2. Linear Filters 
A mean filter is the optimal linear filter for Gaussian noise 
in the sense of mean square error. Linear filters too tend to 
blur sharp edges, destroy lines and other fine image details, 
and perform poorly in the presence of signal-dependent noise. 
The wiener filtering [11] method requires the information 
about the spectra of the noise and the original signal and it 
works well only if the underlying signal is smooth. Wiener 
method implements spatial smoothing and its model 
complexity control correspond to choosing the window size. 
To overcome the weakness of the Wiener filtering, Donoho 
and Johnstone proposed the wavelet based denoising scheme 
in [12, 13]. 
B. Transform Domain Filtering 
The transform domain filtering methods can be subdivided 
according to the choice of the basic functions. The basic 
functions can be further classified as data adaptive and non-
adaptive. Non-adaptive transforms are discussed first since 
they are more popular. 
1. Spatial-Frequency Filtering 
Spatial-frequency filtering refers use of low pass filters 
using Fast Fourier Transform (FFT). In frequency smoothing 
methods [11] the removal of the noise is achieved by 
designing a frequency domain filter and adapting a cut-off 
frequency when the noise components are deco related from 
the useful signal in the frequency domain. These methods are 
time consuming and depend on the cut-off frequency and the 
filter function behavior. Furthermore, they may produce 
artificial frequencies in the processed image. 
2. Wavelet domain 
Filtering operations in the wavelet domain can be 
subdivided into linear and nonlinear methods. 
2.1 Linear Filters 
Linear filters such as Wiener filter in the wavelet domain 
yield optimal results when the signal corruption can be 
modeled as a Gaussian process and the accuracy criterion is 
the mean square error (MSE) [14], [15]. However, designing a 
filter based on this assumption frequently results in a filtered 
image that is more visually displeasing than the original noisy 
signal, even though the filtering operation successfully 
reduces the MSE. In [16] a wavelet-domain spatially adaptive 
FIR Wiener filtering for image denoising is proposed where 
wiener filtering is performed only within each scale and 
intrascale filtering is not allowed. 
2.2. Non-Linear Threshold Filtering 
The most investigated domain in denoising using Wavelet 
Transform is the non-linear coefficient thresholding based 
methods. The procedure exploits the property of the wavelet 
transform and the fact that the Wavelet Transform maps white 
noise in the signal domain to white noise in the transform 
domain. 
Thus, 
while 
signal 
energy 
becomes 
more 
concentrated into fewer coefficients in the transform domain, 
noise energy does not. It is this important principle that 
enables the separation of signal from noise. The procedure in 
which small coefficients are removed while others are left 
untouched is called hard thresholding [7]. But the method 
generates spurious blips, better known as artifacts, in the 
images as a result of unsuccessful attempts of removing 
moderately large noise coefficients. To overcome the demerits  
International Conference on Innovations in Engineering and Technology (ICIET'2013) Dec. 25-26, 2013 Bangkok (Thailand)
http://dx.doi.org/10.15242/IIE.E1213576
49

 
 
Fig. 9  Expanded classification of Image de-noising technique 
 
of 
hard thresholding, 
wavelet transforms 
using soft 
thresholding was also introduced in [7]. In this scheme, 
coefficients above the threshold are shrunk by the absolute 
value of the threshold itself. Similar to soft thresholding, other 
techniques of applying thresholds are semi-soft thresholding 
and Garrote thresholding. Most of the wavelet shrinkage 
International Conference on Innovations in Engineering and Technology (ICIET'2013) Dec. 25-26, 2013 Bangkok (Thailand)
http://dx.doi.org/10.15242/IIE.E1213576
50

 
 
literature is based on methods for choosing the optimal 
threshold which can be adaptive or non-adaptive to the image. 
2.2.1 Non-Adaptive Thresholds 
VISU Shrink [12] is non-adaptive universal threshold, 
which depends only on number of data points. It has 
asymptotic equivalence suggesting best performance in terms 
of MSE when the number of pixels reaches infinity. VISU 
Shrink is known to yield overly smoothed images because its 
threshold choice can be unwarrantedly large due to its 
dependence on the number of pixels in the image. 
2.2.2 Adaptive Thresholds 
SURE Shrink [12] uses a hybrid of the universal threshold 
and the SURE [Stein‟s Unbiased Risk Estimator] threshold 
and performs better than VISU Shrink. Bayes Shrink [17], 
[18] minimizes the Bayes‟ Risk Estimator function assuming 
generalized Gaussian prior and thus yielding data adaptive 
threshold. Bayes Shrink outperforms SURE Shrink most of the 
times. Cross Validation [19] replaces wavelet coefficient with 
the weighted average of neighborhood coefficients to 
minimize generalized cross validation (GCV) function 
providing optimum threshold for every coefficient. The 
assumption that one can distinguish noise from the signal 
solely based on coefficient magnitudes is violated when noise 
levels are higher than signal magnitudes. Under this high noise 
circumstance, the spatial configuration of neighboring wavelet 
coefficients can play an important role in noise-signal 
classifications. Signals tend to form meaningful features (e.g. 
straight lines, curves), while noisy coefficients often scatter 
randomly. 
2.3 Non-orthogonal Wavelet Transforms 
Un-decimated Wavelet Transform (UDWT) has also been 
used for decomposing the signal to provide visually better 
solution. Since UDWT is shift invariant it avoids visual 
artifacts such as pseudo-Gibbs phenomenon. Though the 
improvement in results is much higher, use of UDWT adds a 
large overhead of computations thus making it less feasible. In 
[20] normal hard/soft thresholding was extended to Shift 
Invariant Discrete Wavelet Transform. In [21] Shift Invariant 
Wavelet Packet Decomposition (SIWPD) is exploited to 
obtain number of basic functions. Then using minimum 
description length principle the best basis function was found 
out which yielded smallest code length required for 
description of the given data. Then, thresholding was applied 
to denoise the data. In addition to UDWT, use of multi 
wavelets is explored which further enhances the performance 
but further increases the computation complexity. The 
multiwavelets are obtained by applying more than one 
function (scaling function) to given dataset. Multi wavelets 
possess properties such as short support, symmetry, and the 
most importantly higher order of vanishing moments. This 
combination of shift invariance and Multiwavelets is 
implemented in [22] which give superior results for the Lena 
image in context of MSE. 
2.4. Wavelet Coefficient Model 
This approach focuses on exploiting the multi resolution 
properties of Wavelet Transform. This technique identifies 
close correlation of signal at different resolutions by observing 
the signal across multiple resolutions. This method produces 
excellent output but is computationally much more complex 
and expensive. The modeling of the wavelet coefficients can 
either be deterministic or statistical. 
2.4.1 Deterministic 
 The Deterministic method of modeling involves creating 
tree structure of wavelet coefficients with every level in the 
tree representing each scale of transformation and nodes 
representing the wavelet coefficients. This approach is 
adopted in [23]. The optimal tree approximation displays a 
hierarchical interpretation of wavelet decomposition. Wavelet 
coefficients of singularities have large wavelet coefficients 
that persist along the branches of tree. Thus if a wavelet 
coefficient has strong presence at particular node then in case 
of it being signal, its presence should be more pronounced at 
its parent nodes. If it is noisy coefficient, for instance spurious 
blip, then such consistent presence will be missing. 
2.4.2. Statistical Modeling of Wavelet Coefficients 
This approach focuses on some more interesting and 
appealing properties of the Wavelet Transform such as multi 
scale correlation between the wavelet coefficients local 
correlation between neighborhood coefficients etc. This 
approach has an inherent goal of perfect in the exact modeling 
of image data with use of Wavelet transform.  
IV. RESULT AND CONCLUSION 
Performance of different denoising algorithms is measured 
by using quantitative performance measures such as peak 
signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR) and image enhancement factor 
(IEF). 
Where MSE stands for mean square error, IEF stands for 
image enhancement factor, M x N is size of the image, Y 
represents the original image,    denotes the de-noised image, 
and η represents the noisy image.  The different denoising 
algorithms were applied to gray scale image of Lena 
containing noise density of 90%.  
 
 
 
 
 
International Conference on Innovations in Engineering and Technology (ICIET'2013) Dec. 25-26, 2013 Bangkok (Thailand)
http://dx.doi.org/10.15242/IIE.E1213576
51

 
 
TABLE I 
COMPARISON OF IMAGE PARAMETERS FOR DIFFERENT IMAGE DENOISING 
FILTERS AT NOISE DENSITY OF 90% 
Filter 
PSNR 
IEF 
MF 
6.5759 
1.1712 
AMF 
8.0603 
1.6499 
PSMF 
6.7847 
1.2257 
DBA 
17.1205 
13.2768 
MDBA 
17.2242 
13.5976 
MDBUTMF 
17.9865 
16.2066 
