arXiv:0709.0968v1  [astro-ph]  6 Sep 2007
Characteristics of EGRET Blazars in the VLBA Imaging and
Polarimetry Survey (VIPS)
G. B. Taylor1, S. E. Healey2, J. F. Helmboldt3, S. Tremblay1, C. D. Fassnacht4, R. C.
Walker5, L. O. Sjouwerman5, T. J. Pearson6, A. C. S. Readhead6, L. Weintraub6, N.
Gehrels7, R. W. Romani2, P. F. Michelson2, R. D. Blandford8, and G. Cotter9
ABSTRACT
We examine the radio properties of EGRET-detected blazars observed as
part of the VLBA Imaging and Polarimetry Survey (VIPS). VIPS has a ﬂux
limit roughly an order of magnitude below the MOJAVE survey and most other
samples that have been used to study the properties of EGRET blazars.
At
lower ﬂux levels, radio ﬂux density does not directly correlate with gamma-ray
ﬂux density. We do ﬁnd that the EGRET-detected blazars tend to have higher
brightness temperatures, greater core fractions, and possibly larger than average
jet opening angles. A weak correlation is also found with jet length and with
polarization. All of the well-established trends can be explained by systematically
larger Doppler factors in the γ-ray loud blazars, consistent with the measurements
of higher apparent velocities found in monitoring programs carried out at radio
frequencies above 10 GHz.
Subject headings: galaxies: active - surveys - catalogs - galaxies: jets - galaxies:
nuclei - radio continuum: galaxies - techniques: image processing
1Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of New Mexico, 800 Yale Blvd NE, Albuquerque, NM
87131, USA
2Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305
3Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, DC 20375
4Department of Physics, University of California at Davis, 1 Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616
5National Radio Astronomy Observatory, P.O. Box O, Socorro, NM 87801, U.S.A.
6Astronomy Department, California Institute of Technology, Mail Code 105-24, 1200 East California
Boulevard, Pasadena, CA 91125
7NASA Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD 20771
8KIPAC, Stanford University, PO Box 20450, MS 29, Stanford, CA 94309, USA
9University of Oxford, Department of Astrophysics, Denys Wilkinson Building, Keble Road, Oxford OX1
3RH

– 2 –
1.
Introduction
At high galactic latitudes at least ∼70% of the sources seen by the Compton Gamma-
Ray Observatory (CGRO; Hartman et al.
1999) EGRET instrument are identiﬁed with
blazars (Sowards-Emmerd et al. 2003, 2004, 2005). These blazars exhibit ﬂat radio spectra,
rapid variability, compact cores with one-sided parsec-scale jets, and superluminal motion in
the jets (Marscher 2006). At optical wavelengths blazars are characterized by broad or no
emission lines, optically violently variable behavior, and relatively high linear polarization
(Urry & Padovani 1995).
The identiﬁed EGRET blazars display a number of interesting radio properties. Based
on 22 and 37 GHz monitoring of 43 sources, L¨ahteenm¨aki & Valtaoja (2003) suggest that
the EGRET ﬂares lagged behind mm ﬂares. This is in direct contrast to other studies (e.g.,
Reich et al. 1993) that claimed enhanced radio emission following a high level of gamma-ray
activity. Lister & Homan (2005) ﬁnd that EGRET blazars have more strongly polarized
jets than found in compact objects on average based on analysis of 26 EGRET sources
overlapping with the Monitoring of Jets in Active galactic nuclei with VLBA Experiments
(MOJAVE) VLBI survey. Kovalev et al. (2005) reported that EGRET blazars in the 15
GHz MOJAVE survey were more compact than non-EGRET blazars. EGRET blazars have
also been claimed to have much higher superluminal speeds than other blazars, and to have
gamma-ray ﬂares associated with the ejection of superluminal radio knots (Jorstad et al.
2001a,b; Kellermann et al. 2004). However, in consideration of a larger sample (taken at
2 and 8 GHz) Piner et al. (2007) ﬁnd no signiﬁcant diﬀerence between the jet velocities of
EGRET and non-EGRET blazars. In either case it still is unclear whether the radio ﬂaring,
or the ejection of new components, precedes or follows the gamma-ray ﬂare, or whether there
are in fact two classes of gamma-ray blazars (e.g., Sikora et al. 2001, 2002), one class with
steep gamma-ray spectra and another class with ﬂat gamma-ray spectra.
We have recently completed the 5 GHz VLBA Imaging and Polarimetry Survey (VIPS)
of 1127 ﬂat-spectrum sources stronger than 85 mJy in the Northern Cap region of the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). VIPS (Taylor et al. 2005, Helmboldt et al. 2007a) was carried
out between January and August of 2006 and includes 5 GHz, full polarization images of
958 sources as well as 147 total intensity images for sources previously observed as part
of the Caltech Jodrell Bank Flat spectrum survey (CJF). The small remainder (22) were
previously observed in the VIPS pilot survey and/or in the MOJAVE survey. Over 99%
of the VIPS sources have been successfully imaged, with just under 1% being too weak to
reliably self-calibrate and image.
The large, uniform sample provided by VIPS will have many uses, including enabling
the intelligent follow-up of gamma-ray blazars as they ﬂare and are detected by the Gamma-

– 3 –
ray Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST; Gehrels et al. 2001). GLAST, to be launched
in late 2007, will provide a dramatic increase in the resolution and energy range and over
two orders of magnitude increase in sensitivity over CGRO-EGRET, thereby aﬀording an
unprecedented opportunity for the study of the centers of activity and jets in blazars in the
gamma-ray energy range.
Here we make use of the VIPS survey to examine correlations in the parsec-scale jet
properties of EGRET blazars.
2.
Sample Deﬁnition
We have compared the latest EGRET catalog (Hartman et al. 1999) to the recently
compiled Combined Radio All-sky Targeted Eight GHz Survey (CRATES; Healey et al.
2007a), and from the intersection compiled a sample of 173 candidate EGRET sources at
|b| > 10◦. In Fig. 1 we plot the Gamma-ray mean and peak ﬂuxes against the 8.4 GHz
radio ﬂux density from CRATES (Healey et al. 2007a) for 173 and 117 sources respectively.
The VIPS sample (which covers only ∼14% of the sky), is derived from CLASS (Myers et
al. 2003), but otherwise has similar radio ﬂux limits and spectral selection as CRATES.
Both CRATES and CLASS include A conﬁguration VLA observations at 8.4 GHz. The full
radio/γ-ray properties of the sample will be discussed in Healey et al. 2007b. Here we focus
on the candidate EGRET sources within the ∼5700 square degree region of the sky covered
by VIPS, which provides uniform quality VLBI imaging. The results are summarized in
Table 1. This list contains 12 VIPS sources deemed likely candidates, and 19 VIPS sources
deemed plausible candidates. Here “likely” and “plausible” refer to ranges in the Figure of
Merit (FoM). The FoM is computed based on the 8.4 GHz ﬂux density, the radio spectral
index, the X-ray ﬂux density, and the positional coincidence (Sowards-Emmerd et al. 2003).
A source is considered “likely” if it has FoM > 1, and “plausible” if it has 1.0 > FoM > 0.25.
In some cases multiple VIPS sources are assigned to a single EGRET source. Since some
EGRET sources may be in fact composites of multiple blazars we have not made any dis-
tinction between sources with multiple identiﬁcations and those with a single identiﬁcation.
For 6 bright sources otherwise meeting the VIPS source criteria, MOJAVE observations are
available. In Fig. 2 we show the 5 GHz VIPS images or 15 GHz MOJAVE images for all 12
sources identiﬁed with EGRET blazars with high conﬁdence (the “likely” candidates). In
Figs. 3, and 4 we show the images for 19 sources identiﬁed as plausible counterparts. For
completeness we include 15 GHz MOJAVE images (Kellermann et al. 2004) for those 6 VIPS
sources that were not imaged at 5 GHz. One should remember that due to the large range
in redshifts, the individual rest-frame emitted frequencies can range over a factor up to 3.2.

– 4 –
3.
Morphological comparison
While a number of radio-bright EGRET sources distributed over the sky have been
imaged with VLBI (see references discussed in §1), only in the VIPS region has the full
EGRET candidate sample been uniformly imaged down to a ﬂux density limit of 85 mJy at
8 GHz. In this section we examine the VLBI-scale properties of the 31 EGRET candidate
blazars in this uniform sample, and for the 25 sources imaged as part of VIPS, we compare
them to the properties of the VIPS survey of 1127 sources.
3.1.
Source Classes
The classiﬁcation of the EGRET candidates in VIPS is 8 PS (point sources), 3 SJET
(short jets), and 14 LJET (long jets) according to the automatic classiﬁcation scheme of
Helmboldt et al. (2007a; see Table 2). There are no CSO (Compact Symmetric Object)
candidates or CPLX (complex) sources.
Applying the same classiﬁcation rules to the 6
MOJAVE sources adds 5 LJET and 1 SJET for totals of 8 (25%) PS, 4 (13%) SJET, and 19
(61%) LJET. This can be compared to the population in VIPS as a whole which is 25% PS,
22% SJET, 43% LJET, 9% CSO and 2% CPLX. If EGRET candidates were drawn from the
VIPS population at random then we would expect 8 ± 3 PS, 7 ± 3 SJET, 13 ± 4 LJET,
and 3 ± 2 CSO and COMPLEX. While the number of PS and SJET sources are roughly as
expected we ﬁnd a marginally signiﬁcant lack of CSOs, and a marginally signiﬁcant excess
of sources with long jets (LJET) on the parsec-scale.
3.2.
Polarization
Polarization is detected from all 6 of the MOJAVE sources and from 9 of the 25 VIPS
sources for a total of 48 ± 12%. This is higher than the average of 36 ± 4% in VIPS overall
(Helmboldt et al. 2007a), and the 41 ± 4% average for LJETs, though the numbers of sources
involved are too small to make a deﬁnitive statment. Similarly a detailed examination of
the polarization properties is handicapped by small number statistics and the fact that
we have a mix of 5 GHz measurements for VIPS sources and 15 GHz measurements for
MOJAVE sources. Lister & Homan (2005) found that that the jets (but not the cores) of
EGRET blazars tended to have nearly twice the level of fractional polarization compared to
MOJAVE sources not detected by EGRET, and are also more luminous. They attribute the
diﬀerence to a higher mean Doppler factor for the EGRET blazars.

– 5 –
3.3.
Core Fraction
In Fig. 5 we plot the distribution of core-to-jet ratio (deﬁned as the ratio of ﬂux density
at 5 GHz in the VLBI core compared to the jet emission from the source at 5 GHz) for the
EGRET candidates against the distribution for the VIPS survey as a whole. No k-corrections
have been applied, even though the diﬀerence in spectral index between the core and the
extended emission will result in a change in the ratio with source redshift. Given the similar
range in redshifts, and the core dominated nature of the sources, the corrections should
be modest and similar for both EGRET-detected blazars and VIPS sources as a whole.
From the histograms, the EGRET sources appear to be biased toward more core-dominated
systems. The K-S test probability that the two distributions were drawn from the same
parent distribution is 4%. The core ﬂux density for the EGRET blazars can be found in
Table 3.
3.4.
Brightness Temperature
We have obtained the brightness temperatures from automatic modelﬁts to source com-
ponents as described in Helmboldt et al. (2007a). For sources with two or fewer components
we have further reﬁned the our modelﬁtting procedure by ﬁtting to the visibility data di-
rectly. Only image plane modelﬁtting was carried out in Helmboldt et al. (2007a) due to the
tendency for the automatic visibility modelﬁtting to go awry for complicated sources. The
minimum observable size for each source was calculated using equation (2) from Kovalev et
al. (2005), where we computed the SNR of each core using the core ﬂux density, the rms
measured from the 5 GHz image, and a beam FWHM of 3 mas, the largest dimension of our
restoring beam. For those sources where the estimated core size is less than this minimum
size (∼10% of all VIPS sources), we used the minimum size to compute TB. In Table 3
we provide the core sizes, core TB, brightest jet component TB, δPA, and jet opening half
angle for the VIPS blazars. For sources where the estimated core FWHM is less than the
minimum, the core diameter is preceded by a ’<’ and the core temperature is preceded by a
’>’. In all cases we compute the observed brightness temperatures, without any correction
to the source rest frame.
There is some indication that the brightness temperature for the cores of the EGRET
candidates may be higher than average (see distributions in Fig. 6). The K-S test probability
for these two distributions coming from the same parent population is 4%.
For the jet
components (formally, the brightest jet component) the two distributions look fairly similar,
except that the spread in the EGRET distribution is smaller (see lower panel of Fig. 6); the
K-S test for this pair of distributions is 11%.

– 6 –
3.5.
Jet Opening Angle
We have measured a mean opening half-angle by the following procedure: We measure
the separation of each jet component from the core along the jet axis (taken to be a linear
ﬁt to the component positions) and the distance of each component from the jet axis, i.e., x’
and y’ positions in a rotated coordinate system with the jet axis along the x’-axis. For each
component, we measure its extent from its center along a line perpendicular to the jet axis
using the parameters of its elliptical ﬁt, and then deconvolve this using the extent of the
Gaussian restoring beam along the same line. The opening half-angle measured from each
component is then taken to be
ψ = arctan[(|y′| + dr)/|x′|]
where dr is the deconvolved Gaussian size perpendicular to the jet axis. After measuring
this for each jet component, we average them to get one value. This is only done for sources
with more than 2 total components, (i.e., at least 2 jet components). This means that as
in the case of jet bending (see §3.6), we only have quantitative estimates for four of the
EGRET/VIPS sources (see. Fig. 7). Though this is based on very small statistics there is a
hint that EGRET/VIPS jets have unusually large opening angles. We ﬁnd 3 sources have jet
opening half-angles exceeding the VIPS median (18.9◦). Monte-Carlo simulations of opening
angles using the VIPS sample suggests that 3 out of 4 of the randomly sampled values are
greater than the median about 30% of the time. So, there’s less than a 1 in 3 chance that
the EGRET blazars have the same distribution for the opening angle as the whole VIPS
sample. Looking at the EGRET/MOJAVE and EGRET/VIPS sources by eye in Figures 2-4
strengthens this impression. We see in Figures 2-4 six sources (J08098+5218, J09576+5522,
J12215+2813, 1611+343, J16352+3808, J17406+5211) that have opening angles larger than
20 degrees. This can be compared to the VIPS images for the survey as a whole which are
online1. In a few of the blazars the emission is rather diﬀuse which is why they do not show
up in the automatic opening angle calculation.
3.6.
Jet Bending and Length
We can also compare the amount of bending in the jet on the parsec scale for the EGRET
candidates compared to VIPS as a whole. The amount of bending was calculated by ﬁtting
a parabola to the centroids of Gaussian model components (Helmboldt et al. 2007b). Again
we are limited to only 4 sources (Fig. 7), and the results are inconclusive. In fact the source
1See http://www.phys.unm.edu/∼gbtaylor/VIPS/

– 7 –
with the largest reported bend, J09576+5522, could be much less bent depending on if the
morphology is attributed to a twisting jet, or to a jet with a broad opening angle. Looking
at the EGRET/MOJAVE and EGRET/VIPS sources by eye only increases the number
of highly bent jets by one. We see in Figures 2-4 4 sources (J12215+2813, J17226+5856,
J17246+6055, J17406+5211) that appear to bend through more than 20 degrees on the
parsec scale.
Given the slight preponderance of sources with long jets, we compared the distribution
of jet length in EGRET blazars with VIPS as a whole. There does not appear to be an
appreciable diﬀerence between the two populations. The K-S probability that the two are
drawn from the same distribution is 34%.
4.
Notes on Individual Sources
J11044+3812 = Mrk 421 A well known BL Lac and also one of the ﬁrst sources to be
detected in TeV emission (Punch et al. 1992). Mrk 421 was included in both the CJF
(Taylor et al. 1994) and 2cm surveys (Kellermann et al. 2004) and has also been recently
imaged by Giroletti et al. (2006).
J16036+1554 This source is completely unresolved by the VLBA observations at 5 GHz
(Helmboldt et al. 2007a), and can be well ﬁt with a single component (the core) with size
of < 0.12 mas. This results in a brightness temperature of > 1 × 1012 K. Such completely
unresolved sources without any jet components are quite rare - there are essentially no
sources this compact in MOJAVE (Kovalev et al. 2005) or CJF (Taylor et al. 1994).
J17246+6055 The faint (r band magnitude 21.2) host galaxy does not yet have a known
redshift or spectroscopic classiﬁcation. The parsec-scale radio structure (see Fig. 4) is quite
unusual with a core-jet and a fairly compact component to the southeast. It is possible
that this source could be a compact supermassive binary black hole, and further VLBI
observations are in progress to test this hypothesis. Another possible explanation is a jet
with a sharp bend and wide opening angle, such as Mrk 501 (Giroletti et al. 2004) or Mrk 421
(Giroletti et al. 2006; and see Fig. 2).
5.
Discussion
From an analysis of the properties of the EGRET candidates in §4, we ﬁnd that can-
didates tend to have high core fractions and high brightness temperatures.
These facts
support models wherein the gamma-rays are produced in a jet oriented at a small angle to

– 8 –
the line-of-sight (e.g., Dermer et al. 1992). The large opening angles seen in 6 out of the
31 sources could also indicate a sight-line close to or within the beaming cone of the radio
emission. A selection eﬀect of this sort would happen naturally if the gamma rays are more
tightly beamed or collimated than the radio. In other words, gamma-ray selected sources
have higher Doppler factors than the population of compact sources as a whole. This can
also explain the observations of higher core fractions, higher brightness temperatures, and
higher polarization in gamma-ray blazars compared to the population of AGN as a whole,
as well as the reports of faster motions. An unbiased comparison of jet components be-
tween the EGRET blazars and the VIPS sample at large supports this, though only 4 of
the EGRET/VIPS sources have enough jet components to permit the unbiased (automatic)
analysis so the statistics are poor.
Somewhat more surprising is the evidence in support of long jets, though this is of
marginal signiﬁcance. Continuing the line of discussion above that EGRET blazars have
higher Doppler factors due to small angles to the line-of-sight, the a priori prediction, as-
suming jets of a ﬁxed length and modest velocity, would be for shorter jets due to projection.
Obtaining longer jets might be possible if the jets of blazars have intrinsically greater sur-
face brightness, or are highly Doppler boosted compared to sources in radio selected samples.
Longer jets in blazars could also be obtained if there is a bias in the selection. The redshift
distribution for the VIPS sample is still incomplete, so it is diﬃcult to investigate possible
selection bias at this time. Given the weakness of the evidence, especially when comparing
the distributions of jet lengths (§3.6), further speculation on this topic is not yet warranted.
6.
Conclusions
Sources selected on the basis of their γ-ray ﬂux as determined by EGRET appear to
have higher Doppler factors than the radio-selected population at large. In the VIPS survey
this selection manifests itself in larger core fractions, higher core brightness temperatures,
increased polarization, and possibly broader jets.
GLAST, which will launch in late 2007 or early 2008, will detect several thousand
(Gehrels & Michelson 1999) of the tens of thousands of compact, radio-loud, ﬂat-spectrum
AGN currently known. Conﬁrming the tighter beaming angle for the γ-rays should be easily
achieved with the improved statistics. Greater advances in understanding are anticipated,
though detailed studies including multi-wavelength ﬂux monitoring, and multi-frequency,
multi-epoch VLBI polarimetry will be possible only for a small subset of objects. As we
have shown, the gamma-ray ﬂux density is not simply related to the radio ﬂux-density, so
selecting the brightest radio sources for study may not maximize the chances of coincidence

– 9 –
with strong gamma-ray emission. Therefore it may be advantageous to consider selecting
sources with large core fractions, high central brightness temperatures, and large opening
angles, as well as strong radio ﬂux density. GLAST could also see new populations of AGN
including Seyfert galaxies, and low power radio galaxies. For this reason it is important to
provide contemporaneous ground-based monitoring of a range of source classes, powers, and
morphologies. Comparisons between the parsec-scale radio structures as revealed by VLBI
observations and the time variable γ-ray ﬂux, could discriminate between various models
describing the production of the γ-ray emission, or reveal that more than one mechanism is
at work.
We thank an anonymous referee for constructive suggestions. The National Radio Astronomy
Observatory is a facility of the National Science Foundation operated under cooperative
agreement by Associated Universities, Inc.
