1
Deep-Learning-based Millimeter-Wave Massive
MIMO for Hybrid Precoding
Hongji Huang, Member, IEEE, Yiwei Song, Jie Yang, Member, IEEE,
Guan Gui, Senior Member, IEEE, and Fumiyuki Adachi, Life Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Millimeter wave (mmWave) massive multiple-input
multiple-output (MIMO) has been regarded to be an emerging so-
lution for the next generation of communications, in which hybrid
analog and digital precoding is an important method for reducing
the hardware complexity and energy consumption associated with
mixed signal components. However, the fundamental limitations
of the existing hybrid precoding schemes is that they have high
computational complexity and fail to fully exploit the spatial
information. To overcome these limitations, this paper proposes
a deep-learning-enabled mmWave massive MIMO framework
for effective hybrid precoding, in which each selection of the
precoders for obtaining the optimized decoder is regarded as a
mapping relation in the deep neural network (DNN). Speciﬁcally,
the hybrid precoder is selected through training based on the
DNN for optimizing precoding process of the mmWave massive
MIMO. Additionally, we present extensive simulation results
to validate the excellent performance of the proposed scheme.
The results exhibit that the DNN-based approach is capable of
minimizing the bit error ratio (BER) and enhancing spectrum
efﬁciency of the mmWave massive MIMO, which achieves better
performance in hybrid precoding compared with conventional
schemes while substantially reducing the required computational
complexity.
Index Terms—Millimeter wave (mmWave), massive multiple-
input multiple-output (MIMO), deep learning, hybrid precoding.
I. INTRODUCTION
W
IRELESS data trafﬁc is predicted to improve 1000-fold
by the year 2020 and may increase by over 10 000-fold
by the year 2030 [1], thus promoting the development of the
ﬁfth generation (5G) concept to cope with the explosive data
increase. As one of the most highly efﬁcient techniques to meet
the 5G requirements, the use of enormous chunks of under-
utilized spectrum in the ultra-high-frequency bands, such as
the millimeter-wave (mmWave) band, has recently attracted
considerable interest in the research community [2]. Compare
with current wireless systems, one evolutionary progress of
mmWave communications is that the ten-fold increase in
carrier frequency. In another words, mmWave signals bring an
orders-of-magnitude enhancement in free-space pathloss [3].
Inspired
by
massive
multiple-input
multiple-output
(MIMO), a mmWave massive MIMO system is considered
to be a potential technique for enhancing system throughput.
H. Huang, Y. Song, J. Yang, and G. Gui are with College of Telecommuni-
cation and Information Engineering, Nanjing University of Posts and Telecom-
munications, Nanjing 210003, P. R. China. (e-mail: b14111829@njupt.edu.cn,
b15080234@njupt.edu.cn, guiguan@njupt.edu.cn, hikmet@njupt.edu.cn)
F. Adachi is with Wireless Signal Processing Research Group, Research Or-
ganization of Electrical Communication (ROEC), Tohoku University, Sendai
980-8577, Japan. (e-mail: adachi@ecei.tohoku.ac.jp)
To multiplex a large amount of data streams and achieve
more accurate beamforming in mmWave massive MIMO,
hybrid precoding was proposed [1]. In [4], a successive
interference cancellation-based hybrid precoding that can
realize excellent performance with low complexity was
presented, in which the sum rate optimization problem with
non-convex constraints was divided into several sub-rate
optimization issues. Then, the authors in [5] designed a
low-complexity hybrid analog/digital precoding for multiuser
mmWave systems by conﬁguring a hybrid precoder. However,
these precoding schemes proposed in the previous works
have high commotional complexity and require a complicated
bit allocation strategy since the previously proposed hybrid
anlog/digital precoding schemes are based on singular value
decomposition (SVD). Additionally, the newly proposed
geometric mean decomposition (GMD)-based scheme [6]
can avoid the bit allocation issue, but it still brings great
challenges in addressing the non-convex constraint on the
analog precoder and in exploiting the structural characteristics
of the mmWave massive MIMO systems.
However, in the context of the mmWave massive MIMO
systems, though a quantity of researches have been devoted to
enhancing the hybrid precoding performance, there are still
a lot of problems remaining and two major challenge are
the extraordinarily high computational complexity and poor
system performance. In the past few years, many scholars have
realized this gap and they have provided different methods
for reducing the computational complexity or improving the
precoding performance, such as the (GMD)-based scheme
[6], the matrix factorization-based hybrid precoding mean
[7], a precoding method based on radio-frequency (RF) and
baseband signal processing [8], and hybrid spatial processing
architecture aided precoding approach [9], et al. Also, for the
sake of realizing high spectrum efﬁciency with low complex-
ity, an alternating minimization scheme for effectively design-
ing hybrid precoder was provided [10]. Then, by exploiting
low-dimensional beamspace channel state information (CSI)
processed by compressive sensing (CS) detectors, paper [11]
presented a beamspace-SVD based hybrid precoding method
for reducing complexity. In general, these works are based on
conventional mathematical means such as the SVD and the
GMD, which are too weak to exploit the sparsity statistics
of the mmWave massive MIMO. Simultaneously, since the
traditional methods are inadequate to leverage the structural
characteristics of such mmWave systems, traditional low-
complexity schemes are realized at the cost of degrading the
hybrid precoding of the systems. Therefore, previous works
arXiv:1901.06537v1  [eess.SP]  19 Jan 2019

2
fail to deal with these issues fundamentally and new methods
are urgent need to be put forward for enhancing the hybrid
precoding performance of the mmWave massive MIMO.
Recently, the emerging solution called deep learning [12]
is an extraordinarily remarkable technology for handling ex-
plosive data and addressing complicated nonlinear problems.
It has been proved that deep learning is an excellent tool to
deal with complex non-convex problems and high-computation
issues, which is dedicated by its super-excellent recognition
and representation abilities. Some previous works which in-
corporate deep learning into communications have been in-
vestigated, including beam selection, heterogeneous network,
non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA), massive MIMO, and
heterogeneous network [13]–[18]. Additionally, deep learning
has been applied to intelligent trafﬁc control area [19]–[22],
showing great advancements resulting from the deep-learning-
based communication schemes.
Thus, this study investigates a framework which integrates
deep learning into hybrid precoding in mmWave MIMO sys-
tems. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as
follows.
1) First, this is the ﬁrst work to design a framework that
incorporates the deep learning technique into hybrid
precoding. Speciﬁcally, we regard a deep neural network
(DNN) as an autoencoder, and this model is regarded
as a black box, where activation functions optimize
multiple layers of the network and create corresponding
mapping relations.
2) In our work, a hybrid precoding scheme based on deep
learning is provided. Here, the DNN is capable of cap-
turing structural information of hybrid precoding scheme
through the training stage, contributing to lowering
the computational complexity. Additionally, simulation
results and comparisons have veriﬁed the superiority of
the proposed methods.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. To begin
with, we establish a mmWave massive MIMO model, in which
many antennas are implemented at the base station (BS). Then,
in Section III, to achieve hybrid precoding with good perfor-
mance, we develop a DNN framework and provide a deep
learning-enabled scheme. Simulation results for assessing the
performance of the deep learning-based method are provided
in Section IV, and conclusions are presented in Section V.
Notations: Ns is denoted as independent data streams,
Nt and Nr are deﬁned as the transmitted antennas and the
received antennas. Also, N RF
t
and N RF
r
represent RF chains.
Furthermore, N is denoted as the number of samples.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
We consider a typical mmWave massive MIMO system,
in which one BS with a uniform linear array (ULA) of Nt
antennas and user with Nr received antennas are designed.
Here, the BS sends Ns independent data streams to the
user, and it is assumed to have no information on all the
communication links. Additionally, it is assumed that the BS
and the user have N RF
t
and N RF
r
RF chains, respectively,
which meet the requirements that Ns ≤N RF
t
≤Nt and
Nt ≤N RF
r
≤Nr [3]. Furthermore, we introduce the well-
known Saleh-Valenzuela (SV) channel model [3], and the
channel matrix H ∈CNt×Nr is written by
H =
r
NtNr
P
 
α0at(θt
0)ar(θr
0) +
P
X
p=1
αpat(θt
p)ar(θr
p)
!
,
(1)
Here, P denotes the number of non-line-of-sight (NLoS)
components. Additionally, the steering vectors at(θt
p) and
ar(θr
p) are deﬁned as the array responses at the BS and the
user, respectively. Furthermore, θt
p and θr
p represent the angle
of departure (AoD) at the BS and the angle of arrival (AoA)
at the user, respectively. For a ULA, at(θpt) ∈CNt×1 and
ar(θpr) ∈CNr×1 can be expressed as
at(θt
p) =
1
√Nt
[1, e−j2π d
λ sin θt
p, · · ·, e−j2π d
λ (Nt−1) sin θt
p]T ,
(2)
ar(θr
p) =
1
√Nr
[1, e−j2π d
λ sin θr
p, · · ·, e−j2π d
λ (Nr−1) sin θr
p]T ,
(3)
Here, d is supposed as the antenna spacing, while the wave-
length of the carrier frequency is deﬁned by λ. As reported in
[23], H has low-rank characteristic since the limited scattering
feature in the mmWave massive MIMO channel, indicating
that near-optimal throughput is achieved by leveraging limited
amounts of RF chains.
Then, we assume a high-dimensional analog precoder and
a low-dimensional digital precoder as DA ∈CNt×NRF
t
and
DD
∈CNRF
t
×Ns, respectively, and a hybrid decoder is
denoted as D = DADD ∈CNt×Ns. Hence, the transmitted
signal x is given as
x = Ds = DADDs,
(4)
where s ∈CNs×1 is the source signal with normalized power
E[ssH] = INs, and we assume that tr{DDH} ≤Ns to
satisfy the constraint of transmit power [24]. Subsequently,
the received signal vector is deﬁned as
y = BHHx + BHn
= (BH
DBH
A )HDADDs + BH
DBH
A n,
(5)
Here, n ∼CN(0, σ2INs) denotes the additive white Gaussian
noise (AWGN). Additionally, BH = BH
DBH
A is a hybrid
combiner, in which BD ∈CN RF
r
×Ns and BA ∈CNr×NRF
r
are deﬁned as the digital combiner and the analog combiner,
respectively. Note that the analog precoder/combiner is always
installed by analog phase shifters, and all elements of DA and
BA are supposed to meet the requirement as
|{DA}i,j| =
1
√Nt
, |{BA}i,j| =
1
√Nr
,
(6)
In mmWave massive MIMO system, fully utilizing the
sparsity of the mmWave channel can greatly enhance the
performance of the hybrid precoding [23], and thus, we
employ a state-of-the-art DNN to construct a novel precoding
framework.

3
Fig. 1. DNN architecture in the proposed scheme.
III. PROPOSED DEEP-LEARNING-BASED HYBRID
PRECODING SCHEME
This part provides a model in which deep learning can be
adopted in the mmWave massive MIMO for achieving end-to-
end highly efﬁcient hybrid precoding. The splendid learning
ability of deep learning enables the spatial features to be
exploited of the mmWave massive MIMO system and regard
the entire system as a black box to capture useful features for
hybrid precoding. We develop the proposed DNN framework
and describe how the nonlinear operation can be mapped to the
hybrid precoder, and then we provide a novel training policy
for facilitating the performance of the DNN.
A. Proposed Deep Neural Network Architecture
Recently, with the aid of deep learning, considerable process
has been achieved in a wide range of areas, including natural
language processing (NLP), computer vision (CV), automated
driving, and so on. Additionally, deep-learning-based methods
can be performed by massively concurrent architectures with
distributed memory architectures, such as graphics processing
units (GPUs), which have been highlighted for their energy
efﬁciency and impressive computational throughput, arousing
great interest in industrial communities.
Deep neural networks (DNNs), the most universal structure
of deep learning frameworks, and it can be considered as a
multiple layers perceptron (MLP). Speciﬁcally, in contrast to
an conventional artiﬁcial neural network (ANN), many hidden
layers are present in a DNN to enhance its learning and
mapping abilities. In a DNN, many units are deployed in
each hidden layer, and the output can be generated based
on the output of these units with the aids of activation
functions. In most cases, the rectiﬁed linear unit (ReLU)
function and the Sigmoid function are used in the nonlinear
operation. Assuming a as the argument, they are deﬁned as
ReLU(a) = max(0, a) and Sigmoid(a) =
1
1+e−a , respectively.
The output of the network is denoted as o and that v denotes
the input data, the mapping operation can be presented as
z = f(v, w) = f (n−1)(f (n−2)(· · ·f 1(v))),
(7)
where n and w represent the number of layers in the neural
network and the weights of the neural network, respectively.
To realize hybrid precoding, we construct a DNN frame-
work, as exhibited in Fig. 1. Here, in the input layer, the length
of each training sequence is determined by its dimension,
which is a fully connected (FC) layer with 128 units for
capturing features of the input data. The next two hidden
layers for processing encoding operation are also FC layers
comprising 400 units and 256 units, respectively. Following
by this, to disturb the signals with the AWGN or other
distortion, a noise layer which is consisted of 200 units for
mixing distortion. Subsequently, for the sake of achieving
decoding, we design the remaining two hidden layers with
128 units and 64 units, respectively. In addition, the output
layer is deployed to generate expected output signals of the
network. Moreover, note that ReLU function is introduced as
the activation function of the input layer and the hidden layers.
However, for enforcing the power constraint in the output
layer, a special activation is designed as
f(s) = min(max(s, 0), Ns),
(8)
B. Learning Policy
For simplifying the mapping relation of the hybrid cod-
ing, we adopt the GMD method to decompose the complex
mmWave massive MIMO channel matrix, and H is reformu-
lated by
y = WQRH
= [W1, W2]
 Q1
∗
0
Q2
  RH
1
RH
2

,
(9)
Here, W1 ∈CNr×Ns is a semi-unitary matrix, which is
regarded as the combiner. Additionally, R1 ∈CNt×Ns is
deﬁned as the precoder, and it is also a semi-unitary ma-
trix. Furthermore, Q1 ∈CNs×Ns is an upper triangular
matrix, while ∗is an arbitrary matrix that can be neglected.
Speciﬁcally, the largest Ns singular values are formulated as
qi,i = (δ1, δ2, · · ·, δNs)
1
Ns ∈¯q, ∀i, where qi,j represent the
elements in matrix Q1. Afterwards, we obtain the received
signal as
y = BHHx + BHn
= WH
1 HR1s + WH
1 n
= Q1s + WH
1 n,
(10)
To train the hybrid precoder to realize precoding, the loss
function is written as
loss = ∥R1 −RARD∥F
=
q
tr((R1 −RARD)(R1 −RARD)H)
=
v
u
u
t
min{Nt,Ns}
X
i=1
δ2
i (R1 −RARD),
(11)
where ∥· ∥F
denotes the Frobenius norm and RA and
RD represent the GMD-based analog precoder and the
GMD-based digital precoder, respectively. Additionally, Eq.
(11) should satisfy the constraint |{RA}i,j| =
1
√Nt } and
tr(RARDRH
DRH
A ) ≤Ns. Moreover, δi(R1 −RARD) denote
the singular values of matrix (R1 −RARD).
Next, we employ the DNN framework to construct an
autoencoder, which is given by
R1 = f(RARD; Ω),
(12)

4
f(·) denotes the mapping relation, for which the detailed
training procedure is provided as follows, and Ωis deﬁned
as the dataset of the samples.
We consider the proposed deep-learning-based scheme as a
mapping operation, and a training mechanism is formulated
for extracting the structural statistics of the mmWave-based
model. First, we initialize RA and RD as empty matrices,
and then we generate random data sequences in the DNN.
Based on different channel conditions, the DNN is trained with
the input data sequences, and RA and RD can be updated.
Synchronously, the physical AOA θr
p and AOD θt
p can be
generated randomly, and we can obtain the bias between R1
and RARD from the output layer of the DNN based on the
input signals in different cases through a large number of
iterations. Thus, the training dataset Ωis acquired, consisting
of the structural features of the mmWave massive MIMO
model and the input data sequences, as well as the output of the
DNN. This is an unsupervised learning training approach. In
the next stage, the DNN needs to be tested after being trained
thoroughly. For each channel condition, the optimal analog
precoder RA and digital precoder RD can be obtained based
on the given input signal vectors without requiring iterations.
Then, based on the proposed methhod, the stochastic gradient
descent (SGD) algorithm with momentum is employed to
process the loss function, which is given by
Rj+1
A
= Rj
A + v,
(13)
Rj+1
D
= Rj
D + v,
(14)
Here, v is denoted as the velocity for facilitating the gradient
element. Additionally, the iteration number is denoted as j,
and R0
A and R0
D are assumed to be the randomly generated
initial solution. Speciﬁcally, the update procedure of v can be
given by
v = αv −ϵg
= αv −ϵ 1
N ▽RA,RD
v
u
u
t
min{Nt,Ns}
X
i=1
δ2
i (R1 −RARD),
(15)
where α denotes the momentum parameter and ϵ denotes the
learning rate. Synchronously, g and N represent the gradient
element and the number of samples, respectively. Concretely,
the learning framework for super hybrid precoding is described
in Algorithm 1.
In addition, to investigate the precoding performance of the
deep learning-based precoding strategy, we introduce the mean
square error (MSE) to analyze its performance, which can be
given as
MSE = E∥R1 −RARD∥2,
(16)
C. Complexity Analysis
One of the key advantages of the proposed hybrid precoding
mean is that this method lowers the computational complexity.
Noted that the matrix multiplication is a Ns × N 2
t space,
TABLE I
COMPUTATIONAL COMPLEXITY OF SEVERAL PRECODING SCHEMES OF
MMWAVE MASSIVE MIMO.
Methods
Computational complexity
Proposed deep learning based scheme
O(L2NsN2
t )
SIC-based hybrid precoding scheme [4]
O(2NrNs(N2
t (K + NsNr)))
Spatially sparse precoding method [3]
O(2N3
r (N4
r Nt + N2
r L2 + N2
r N2
t L))
the complexity of the deep-learning-based method is only
O(L2NsN 2
t ), achieving technical advancement compared with
that of previous researches, such as the conventional SVD
based method. To verify the low computational complexity of
the deep-learning-based scheme intuitively, we deﬁne K as the
number of users, and we present the computational complexity
of the proposed method and that of other typical precoding
approaches, which is illustrated as TABLE I.
Algorithm 1 DNN based hybrid precoding algorithm in
massive MIMO.
Input: The physical AOA θr
p and AOD θt
p, environment
simulator.
Output: Optimized precoder R1.
1: Initialization: The amount of iteration is initialed as j =
0 and the weight is w = 0. Meanwhile, initialize error
threshold as τ = 10−7. Furthermore, we set RA = 0 and
RD = 0.
2: Produce a series of training sequences. Also, θr
p and θt
p
are generated randomly.
3: Construct the proposed DNN framework.
4: Process the environment simulator to simulate wireless
channel with artiﬁcial distortion or noise.
5: while (error ≥τ): Train the DNN by processing the SGD
with momentum according to Eq. (13), Eq. (14), and Eq.
(15).
6: Update RA and RD.
7: Obtain the bias between R1 and RARD from the output
layer of the network.
8: end while
9: return: Optimized precoder R1.
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS AND ANALYSIS
In this section, we assess the performance of our proposed
DNN-based mmWave massive MIMO scheme with numerical
analysis. Here, Keras is used to construct and process the
DNN framework. Without loss of generality, we generate
the channel model according to the models derived in [1].
Additionally, P = 3, and the carrier frequency is given as
28 GHz. Speciﬁcally, the bit error ratio (BER) performance is
evaluated with different learning rates and various batch sizes
of the training dataset, and its performance is compared with
several typical methods. Additionally, the network has been
trained for 45000 iterations in the simulation.
To evaluate the superiority of the proposed approach, we
investigate the BER performance of the DNN-based scheme
compared with those of the SVD-based hybrid precoding
scheme [3], fully digital SVD-based precoding method, fully

5
Fig. 2.
BER versus SNR in the case of the proposed DNN-based scheme,
SVD-based hybrid precoding scheme [3], fully digital SVD-based precoding
method, fully GMD-based precoding method, and new GMD-based precoding
scheme [24].
Fig. 3. BER versus SNR with in the proposed method when the batch size
is 10, 20, 50, and 100.
GMD-based precoding method, and new GMD-based precod-
ing scheme [24]. As shown in Fig. 2, the deep-learning-based
method outperforms the conventional schemes. Furthermore,
the performance improvement is more apparent between the
deep-learning-based strategy and conventional methods, which
is attributed to the excellent representation ability of deep
learning.Additionally, since the DNN utilizes the structural
information and can approach each iteration of the algorithm
for hybrid precoding, it is veriﬁed that the proposed mmWave
massive MIMO strategy is superior to the fully GMD-based
digital precoding mean, implying that the existing non-convex
optimization in hybrid precoding can be solved with the aid
of deep learning.
In Fig. 3, the performance of the proposed mmWave
massive MIMO scheme is thoroughly investigated when the
Fig. 4. BER performance versus SNR in the proposed method with various
learning rates.
Fig. 5.
Spectrum efﬁciency versus SNR in the case of the proposed deep
learning based hybrid precoding scheme, the spatially sparse precoding
method [3], and the fully digital GMD based precoding scheme.
BER performance is evaluated with various batch sizes. It
is observed that the performance of the deep-learning-based
strategy degrades with increasing batch size in terms of BER,
for the reason that slower convergence may be induced by a
larger batch size. However, we further observe that too small
batch size will lead to unstable convergence. Therefore, it is
noted that we should choose batch size carefully for achieving
the optimal performance in the proposed precoding mean.
Fig. 4 presents the BER versus SNR in the DNN-based
mmWave massive MIMO scheme with different learning rates.
It can be witnessed in Fig. 4 that the performance of hybrid
precoding in the DNN-based method is optimized by adopting
a lower learning rate, which occurs because a larger learning
rate causes a higher validation error. Note, however, that
slower convergence behavior will be induced by using a lower

6
Fig. 6. MSE versus iterations in the case of the deep learning-based method,
the analog precoding approach, and the sparse precoding method.
learning rate, though it does enhance the system performance.
Hence, in order to realize better performance, how to select the
best learning rate is an open issue in the proposed framework
for hybrid precoding.
In Fig. 5, we show the spectrum efﬁciency performance
against the SNR of the DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme,
the spatially sparse precoding method [3], and the fully digital
GMD based precoding scheme. As shown in Fig. 5, we
observe that the spectrum efﬁciency is improving as the SNR
increases in all the schemes. Also, it can be seen from Fig. 5
that the proposed hybrid precoding scheme outperforms other
strategies, which achieves better hybrid precoding performance
dedicated by the excellent mapping and learning capacities
of the deep learning. Furthermore, when the SNR increases,
the performance gap of the deep learning based scheme and
that of other approaches is becoming larger. This superior
performance further demonstrates the effectiveness of the
proposed hybrid precoding scheme.
Finally, for the purpose of investigating the robustness
and stability of the proposed hybrid precoding approach, we
explore the relationship between the MSE and the iterations
of the deep learning-based strategy compared with the analog
precoding scheme, and the sparse precoding method. Here,
the learning rate is set as 0.001. As can be seen from Fig.
6, we observe that the MSE performance is stirred with the
increasing iterations, which is dedicated by the fact that all
these algorithms are approaching to conversion with more
iterations. Also, it can be seen from Fig. 6 that the proposed
deep learning based scheme and the sparse precoding method
both convert at around 11 iterations, whereas the analog
precoding scheme requires about 22 iterations. Furthermore,
we can further observe that the MSE performance of the
proposed deep learning based scheme is superior than that of
other means. Hence, it comes to a conclusion that the proposed
deep learning-based approach realizes superior performance
in terms of the hybrid precoding accuracy and conversion
compared to other schemes.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we considered a super approach in enhancing
the hybrid precoding performance, including cutting down the
computational complexity and leveraging the spatial statistics
of the large antenna systems in mmWave massive MIMO
scenario. We ﬁrst provided a detailed deep-learning-based
hybrid precoding method. Analytical results were presented to
verify the performance of the DNN-based method, revealing
that the DNN can facilitate the hybrid precoding because of
its great recognition and mapping abilities. Another promising
direction is to apply deep learning in the channel feedback
issue to alleviate the issues related to codebook size and
feedback overhead.
