arXiv:0709.0966v1  [astro-ph]  6 Sep 2007
Astronomy & Astrophysics manuscript no. gplanets
c⃝ESO 2014
February 8, 2014
Can giant planets form by gravitational fragmentation of discs?
Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of the inner disc region
D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth
School of Physics and Astronomy, CardiﬀUniversity, 5 The Parade, CardiﬀCF24 3AA, Wales, UK
e-mail: D.Stamatellos@astro.cf.ac.uk
e-mail: A.Whitworth@astro.cf.ac.uk
Received September, 2007; accepted
ABSTRACT
Context. Disc fragmentation has been proposed as a possible mechanism for the formation of giant planets at close distances to solar-type stars.
However, it is debatable whether this mechanism can function in the inner region of real discs.
Aims. To investigate the thermodynamics of discs and the probability of fragmentation.
Methods. We use a newly developed method to treat the energy equation and equation of state, which accounts for radiative transfer eﬀects in
SPH simulations of protostellar discs. The diﬀerent chemical and internal states of hydrogen and the properties of dust at diﬀerent densities and
temperatures (ice coated dust grains at low temperatures, ice melting, dust sublimation) are all taken into account by the new method.
Results. We present radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs where the eﬀects of the equation of state and energy equation are taken into
account. We focus on the inner parts of discs, R < 40 AU and examine 2 cases (i) a disc heated by an ambient radiation ﬁeld of 10 K, and
(ii) a disc with additional heating from the central star. In both cases the disc does not fragment; in the former case because it cannot cool fast
enough, and in the latter case because it is not gravitationally unstable. Our results corroborate the results of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai e al.
(2007), who use a diﬀerent treatment for the radiative transfer.
Conclusions. Disc fragmentation is unlikely to be able to produce giant planets around solar-type stars at radii <∼50 AU.
Key words. Accretion, accretion discs – Hydrodynamics – Instabilities – Radiative Transfer – Planetary systems: formation – Planetary
systems: protoplanetary discs
1. Introduction
A large number of exoplanets (∼250) has been discovered
around nearby stars in the last 12 years, mainly with the ra-
dial velocity method. Most of these exoplanets have properties
that are diﬀerent from those of the Solar System. In particular,
giant planets are found very close to the central star on orbits
of apparently random eccentricity.
Two main theories have been proposed for the formation
of giant planets, (i) core accretion, and (ii) gravitational frag-
mentation. In the core accretion scenario giant planets form by
coagulation of planetesimals (e.g. Safronov 1969; Goldreich &
Ward 1973; Pollack et al. 1996). Once a solid body of around
10 ML is reached, it quickly accretes a large gaseous envelope.
One of the main problems of this theory is that the timescale for
planet formation is long. The theory predicts that planets can
form within a few million years, but observations suggest that
circumstellar discs may not be that long lived (Haisch, Lada
& Lada 2001; Cieza et al. 2007). In the gravitational fragmen-
tation scenario, giant planets form by gravitational instability
in massive discs (e.g. Kuiper 1951; Cameron 1978; cf. review
by Durisen et. al 2007). The main advantage of this method is
that planets form on a dynamical timescale, i.e. within a few
hundred years.
There are two conditions that must be fulﬁlled for discs
to fragment gravitationally. (i) The disc must be gravitation-
ally unstable, i.e. massive enough so that gravity can overcome
thermal pressure and centrifugal support (Toomre 1964):
Q(R) = c(R) κ(R)
π G Σ(R)
<∼1 ,
(1)
where c is the sound speed, κ is the epicyclic frequency, and
Σ is the surface density. (ii) The disc must be able to cool fast
enough for the compressional energy provided by the collapse
to be radiated away. Theory and simulations (Gammie 2001;
Johnson & Gammie 2003; Rice et al. 2003, 2005; Mayer et
al. 2004; Mejia et al. 2005) indicate that the disc cooling must
happen on a dynamical time-scale,
tCOOL < C(γ) tORB ,
0.5 <∼C(γ) <∼2.0 ,
(2)
where tORB is the period and γ is the adiabatic exponent.
However, it is uncertain whether real discs actually sat-
isfy the above conditions. Boss (2004) and Mayer et al. (2007)

2
D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
suggest that convection can provide suﬃciently fast cooling,
whereas Johnson & Gammie (2003), Boley et al. (2006) and
Nelson (2006), assert that there is no eﬃcient cooling mecha-
nism, and hence fragmentation is not possible. The latter point
of view is supported by analytic studies which suggest that
convection cannot provide the required cooling (Raﬁkov 2007;
Whitworth et al. 2007), and that discs cannot cool fast enough,
at least close (R <∼50 AU) to the central star (Raﬁkov 2005;
Matzner & Levin 2005; Whitworth & Stamatellos 2006).
Hydrodynamic simulations have produced contradictory
results about whether disc fragmentation can produce giant
planets close to the central star, mainly due the diﬀerent treat-
ments of radiative transfer in discs. We have recently developed
an eﬃcient scheme to capture the thermal and radiative eﬀects
when protostellar gas fragments (see Section 2 and Stamatellos
et al. 2007). Thus, we are able for the ﬁrst time to perform
radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs where the eﬀects
of the equation of state are included. Moreover the radiative
scheme allows to include irradiation of the disc by the central
star.
The structure of the paper is as follows. In Section 2 we
describe the method that is used for the radiative hydrodynamic
simulations. In Section 3 we describe the disc initial setup and
in Section 4 the radiative hydrodynamic simulations. Finally, in
Section 5 we discuss the results of these simulations and their
implications for the possibility of forming giant planets close
to a star by gravitational fragmentation.
2. Numerical method
For the simulations we use the SPH code dragon (Goodwin
et al. 2004), which invokes an octal tree (to compute grav-
ity and ﬁnd neighbours), adaptive smoothing lengths, multiple
particle timesteps, artiﬁcial viscosity (α = 0.1, β = 0.2) with
the Balsara switch, and a second-order Runge-Kutta integration
scheme.
The energy equation is treated with the method of
Stamatellos et al. (2007). The method takes into account com-
pressional heating, viscous heating, radiation heating from the
background, radiation cooling and, implicitly, radiation heating
from the particle’s neighbourhood.It performs well, both in the
optically thin and optically thick regime, and it is eﬃcient and
relatively easy to implement in particle- and grid-based codes.
The gas is assumed to be a mixture of hydrogen and he-
lium. We use an equation of state (Black & Bodenheimer 1975;
Masunaga et al. 1998; Boley et al. 2007) that accounts (i) for
the rotational and vibrational degrees of freedom of molecular
hydrogen, and (ii) for the diﬀerent chemical states of hydro-
gen and helium depending on the temperature and density, i.e.
the eﬀects of H2 dissociation, H0 ionisation, and the ﬁrst and
second ionisation of He are included. Hence, the eﬀects of vari-
ations in the equation of state are taken into account. (We note
however that (i) the temperatures in the simulations presented
here are not high enough for the molecular hydrogen to dis-
sociate, and (ii) contributions from metals are ignored; hence
the gas composition remains the same, i.e. the mean molecular
weight µ is constant).
For the dust and gas opacity we use the parameterization
by Bell & Lin (1994), κ(ρ, T) = κ0 ρa T b , where κ0, a, b
are constants that depend on the species and the physical pro-
cesses contributing to the opacity at each ρ and T. The opacity
changes due to e.g. ice mantle melting, the sublimation of dust,
molecular and H−contributions, are all taken into account.
The code has been extensively tested (see Stamatellos et
al. 2007). In particular it reproduces the detailed 3D results of
Masunaga & Inutsuka (2000) and the analytic test of Spiegel
(1957). We report a further test here in Section 4.1.2.
3. Disc initial conditions
We simulate a 0.07 M⊙disc around a 0.5 M⊙star. This is a
relatively massive disc but such discs have been observed e.g
in the Orion Nebula cluster (Eisner & Carpenter 2006). The
disc initially extends from 2 to 40 AU. Its initial surface den-
sity is Σ(R) ∼R−1/2 and its initial temperature is T(R) ∼R−1.
These are typical density and temperature proﬁles of discs and
have been chosen so as to match the initial conditions of the
simulations of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007).
More speciﬁcally we assume a disc surface proﬁle
Σ(R) = Σ0 R−1/2 ,
(3)
where Σ0 = 1.6 × 103g cm−2, and R denotes the distance from
the rotation axis. The disc temperature proﬁle is
Td(R) =
"
T 2
0
 R
AU
−2
+ T 2
∞
#1/2
.
(4)
T0 = 1200 K is the temperature at R ≃1 AU and T∞= 10 K is
the asymptotic temperature far from the central star.
To calculate the initial thickness z0(R) of the disc, we bal-
ance the vertical component of the gravitational force of the star
and the gravitational force of the underlying disc, against the
pressure force due to the disc temperature (disc thermal pres-
sure):
GM⋆
R2
z0(R)
R
+ πGΣ(R) ≈c2(R)
z0(R),
(5)
where c2(R) = kT(R)/(µmp) is the local sound speed. The
above equation can be written as
GM⋆
R3 z2
0(R) + πGΣ(R)z0(R) −c2(R) = 0 ,
(6)
which is a simple quadratic equation with a positive root
z0(R) = −πΣ(R)R3
2M⋆
+

 πΣ(R)R3
2M⋆
!2
+
R3
GM⋆
c2(R)

1/2
(7)
4. Simulations
We perform 2 disc simulations; (i) one without stellar irradia-
tion but with a constant background radiation ﬁeld of TBGR =
10 K (cf. Boley et al. 2006; Cai et al. 2007), and (ii) one with ra-
diation from the central star (TBGR ∼R−1). We use 2×105 SPH
particles to represent the disc. In both cases the disc relaxes
from the initial conditions to a quasi-steady state. In Fig. 1 we

D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
3
Fig. 1. Internal energy of the disc (i) for a disc under low back-
ground heating (TBGR = 10 K; bottom, red line) and (ii) for
a disc irradiated by the central star(TBGR(R) ∼R−1; top, blue
line).
plot the evolution of the disc internal energy with time for both
cases. When the heating from the central star is ignored the
disc relaxes to a lower-temperature quasi-steady state (bottom
line) than in the case when irradiation by the star is taken into
account (top line). Otherwise the evolution of the thermal en-
ergy appears similar in both cases. In the next subsections we
describe in detail the characteristics of each simulation.
4.1. Disc evolution under low background heating
(TBGR = 10 K)
We assume a constant background radiation ﬁeld of TBGR =
10 K. The disc relaxes to a quasi-steady state (or “asymptotic
phase”; cf. Boley et al. 2006) within ∼250 yr. Thereafter, the
disc cools slowly. Weak spiral arms form in the disc but they do
not show any tendency to fragment (cf. Fig 2), despite the fact
that the disc is Toomre unstable at ∼30 −35 AU (Fig 4). This
is because the disc cannot cool fast enough; the cooling time
throughout the disc is generally >∼2tORB (Fig. 5), where tORB is
the local orbital period.
In Figs. 6 and 7 we plot the azimuthally averaged surface
density, temperature, Toomre parameter Q, and cooling time
(in units of the local orbital period). The temperature and cool-
ing time are additionally averaged vertically relative to the disc
midplane. The Toomre parameter is calculated using the sur-
face density and the midplane disc temperature. Each plot con-
tains 5 lines that correspond to diﬀerent instances during the
disc evolution (t = 500, 1000, . . ., 2500 yr). The proﬁles are
essentially independent of the time, i.e. the disc is in a quasi-
steady state, while it slowly cools (see temperature proﬁle in
Fig. 6).
This simulation was repeated using a smaller number of
SPH particles (5 × 104) and the evolution of the thermal en-
ergy, surface density, temperature, Toomre parameter and cool-
Fig. 2. Logarithmic column density (top) and cross-section of
the density on the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc heated by a
low-temperature background radiation ﬁeld of TBGR = 10 K. x
and y are given in cm.
Fig. 3. Logarithmic temperature in the x-y plane (top) and on
the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc heated by a low-temperature
background radiation ﬁeld of TBGR = 10 K.
ing time were essentially the same. The proﬁles change only
slowly with time as the disc cools quasi-statically.

4
D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
Fig. 4. Toomre parameter the x-y plane (top) and on the x-z
plane (bottom) for a disc heated by a low-temperature back-
ground radiation ﬁeld of TBGR = 10 K.
Fig. 5. Cooling time (in units of the local orbital period) in
the x-y plane (top) and on the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc
heated by a low-temperature background radiation ﬁeld of
TBGR = 10 K.
4.1.1. Comparison with the simulations of Boley et al.
(2006) and Cai et al. (2007)
The spiral arms that develop in the disc are weaker than those
reported by Boley et al. (2006). The temperatures that are cal-
culated are generally larger than those of Boley et al. (2006).
Fig. 6. Surface density (azimuthally averaged) and temperature
(azimuthally and vertically averaged) at 5 instances during the
disc evolution (t = 500, 1000, . . ., 2500 yr; green, red, blue,
cyan, black).
These diﬀerences at large radii (>∼30 AU) are attributable to
using a diﬀerent background radiation ﬁeld; in our simulation
TBGR = 10 K whereas in Boley et al. simulations the disc can
cool down to 3 K. At small radii they could be due to higher
viscous heating in our simulations. By comparing the internal
energies between the two simulations we estimate that the tem-
peratures we calculate are ∼15% higher. However, considering
the diﬀerences between the radiative transfer schemes and be-
tween the hydrodynamic methods (SPH versus grid-based) the
reported discrepancies are rather small. The Toomre parameter
in this simulation is generally higher than that of Boley et al.
(2006) but the cooling times are lower. This is due to the higher
temperatures in our simulation (Q ∝T 0.5, tCOOL ∝T −3). Both
simulations show no sign or even any tendency to fragment.
The results of our simulation are more comparable to the
results of the simulation by Cai et al. (2007) with external en-
velope irradiation of 15 K. The strength of the spiral arms in
our simulation are similar to their simulation. The estimated
temperatures across the disc are also similar; by comparing the
internal energies we estimate that the temperatures that we cal-
culate are less than 3% higher than those reported by Cai et al.
(2007). Both simulations show no tendency towards fragmen-
tation.
We
conclude
that
both
the
Indiana
University
Hydrodynamics Group code (e.g. Pickett et al. 1998; Mejia et
al. 2005) and our SPH-RT code produce very similar results,

D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
5
Fig. 7. Toomre parameter (azimuthally averaged) and cooling
time (in units of the local orbital period; also azimuthally aver-
aged) at 5 instances during the disc evolution (as in Fig. 6).
which is reassuring since the treatment of radiative transfer
and hydrodynamics are completely diﬀerent.
4.1.2. The vertical temperature proﬁle of the disc;
comparison with analytic calculations
The radiative hydrodynamic computational scheme has already
been tested for the case of collapsing clouds and has been
proved to perform well (Stamatellos et al. 2007). To provide
a diﬀerent test of this scheme for disc conﬁgurations, we com-
pare our results with the analytic calculations of Hubeny (1990)
(cf. Boley et al. 2007).
Hubeny (1990) studies the vertical structure of a cylindri-
cally symmetric stationary keplerian disc. The radiation trans-
port is treated only in the direction vertical to the disc mid-
plane. The energy is provided by the shear viscosity of the
Keplerian motion, whereas the self-gravity of the disc is ne-
glected. Convection and external irradiation are also neglected.
If it is further assumed that the viscosity is independent of the
depth in the disc then Hubeny’s LTE gray solution for the tem-
perature T at optical depth τ from the surface of the disc ap-
proximates to
T(τ) = Teﬀ
(3
4
"
(τ −τθ) + 1√
3
#
+
1
3κ(τ)Σ
)1/4
,
(8)
where σT 4
eﬀis the ﬂux at the disc midplane, perpendicular to
this plane, Σ is the column density from the surface of the disc
Fig. 8. Disc temperature proﬁles vertically to the disc mid-
plane at diﬀerent radii from the central star (6, 10, 15, and
20 AU, top to bottom). The temperature T is plotted as a func-
tion of the vertical optical depth τ from the surface to the mid-
plane of the disc. Points correspond to the results of our model
(azimuthally averaged) and the lines to the Hubeny (1990) an-
alytic model.
to the disc midplane, τθ =
R σ
0 κ(σ′) σ′dσ′, where κ(σ) is the
mass opacity and σ(z) =
R ∞
z
ρ dz
To satisfy the assumption of a disc in equilibrium we com-
pare the Hubeny (1990) analytic calculation with a snapshot of
the disc at t = 2000 yr, i.e. during the quasi-steady state. There
are spiral arms in the disc but they are relatively weak and
they should not aﬀect the results of this calculation. However,
we note that this simulation accounts for external disc irra-
diation by a background ﬁeld of 10 K and for the disc self
gravity. Hence, we expect that the vertical temperature pro-
ﬁle of the disc should similar to the one provided by Hubeny
(1990) (Eq. 8), but a bit warmer due to these additional heating
sources.
In Fig. 8 we present the vertical temperature structure at
diﬀerent radii from the central star (6, 10, 15, and 20 AU, top
to bottom). In this graph the temperature is plotted as a function
of the vertical optical depth from the surface to the midplane of
the disc. As expected our temperature proﬁles are similar to
those predicted by Hubeny (1990). There are some deviations

6
D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
Fig. 9. Logarithmic column density (top) and cross-section of
the density on the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc heated by the
central star.
Fig. 10. Logarithmic temperature in the x-y plane (top) and on
the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc heated by the central star.
at larger distances from the central star at low optical depths;
in our simulation the disc surface cools more eﬃciently.
Fig. 11. Toomre parameter the x-y plane (top) and on the x-z
plane (bottom) for a disc heated by the central star.
Fig. 12. Cooling time (in units of the local orbital period) in the
x-y plane (top) and on the x-z plane (bottom) for a disc heated
by the central star.
4.2. Disc evolution with stellar heating
We take into account radiation from the central star by assum-
ing the background temperature is
TBGR(R) =
"
T 2
0
 R
AU
−2
+ T 2
∞
#1/2
,
(9)

D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
7
Fig. 13. Surface density (azimuthally averaged) and tempera-
ture (azimuthally and vertically averaged) at 5 instances dur-
ing the evolution of a disc heated by the central star (t =
500, 1000, . . ., 2500 yr; green, red, blue, cyan, black).
where T0 = 1200 K and T∞= 10 K (cf. Eq. 4). The results
of this simulation are shown in Figs. 9-14. In this case the
initial conditions of the disc are closer to equilibrium, hence
the temperature of the disc of remains almost constant (see
Fig. 13). The disc is overall hotter than in the previous case due
to heating from the central star. Due to higher temperature the
disc cools fast enough to fragment at radii >∼20 AU (Fig. 14).
However, it does not fragment as it is not gravitational unstable
Q>∼1.5 K (Fig. 14).
The eﬀect of the heating from the central star is to stabi-
lize the disc; in this case the disc appears axisymmetric with
no signs of spiral arms. This result is consistent with previous
simulations of discs heated by “envelope-radiation”, i.e. by an
isotropic background radiation ﬁeld (Boss 2001, 2002; Cai et
al. 2007), and with analytical calculations (Matzner & Levin
2005; Raﬁkov 2005; Whitworth & Stamatellos 2006).
5. Discussion
We have performed radiative hydrodynamic simulations of the
inner region of circumstellar discs with initial parameters simi-
lar to the parameters of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007),
i.e. a 0.07 M⊙disc around a 0.5 M⊙star. The disc initially
extends from 2 to 40 AU. The disc initial surface density is
Σ(R) ∼R−1/2 and the disc initial temperature is T(R) ∼R−1. We
use a newly developed method to treat the energy equation in
SPH simulations of discs and an equation of state that includes
Fig. 14. Azimuthally averaged Toomre parameter and cooling
time (in units of the local orbital period) at 5 instances the evo-
lution of the a disc heated by the central star (as in Fig. 6).
the eﬀects of the rotational degrees of freedom of molecular
hydrogen and realistic dust opacities.
Initially we simulated the evolution of the disc under an
external radiation ﬁeld of temperature 10 K. Our results are
comparable with the results of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al.
(2007); the disc is gravitationally unstable at R ∼20 −30 AU,
but it does not fragment because it cannot cool fast enough.
Spiral arms form in the disc but they are weak and do not
show any tendency towards fragmentation. The adiabatic in-
dex is γ = 5/3 outside ∼10 AU where the temperature is less
than ∼80 K; however closer to the central star where the tem-
perature is higher, γ = 7/5, due to the excitation of the rota-
tional degrees of freedom of molecular hydrogen. It has been
suggested that when γ is decreases from 5/3 to 7/5 , the maxi-
mum cooling time for the disc to fragment also increases from
0.5 to 2 tORB (e.g. Johnson & Gammie 2003; Rice et al. 2005).
Our simulations indicate that in discs the cooling time is always
>∼2tORB within ∼30 AU, hence such discs are not expected to
fragment and they do not fragment. The results of the simula-
tions reported here are similar to the results of the simulations
of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007) despite using dif-
ferent treatments for the radiative transfer and for the hydrody-
namics.
We also simulated the evolution of a disc in an external
radiation ﬁeld whose temperature drops as R−1, to mimic the
irradiation from the central star and envelope. In this case the
disc can cool fast enough to fragment (because of its higher
temperature) but it does not fragment because it is not gravi-

8
D. Stamatellos & A. P. Whitworth: Radiative hydrodynamic simulations of discs
tationally unstable. The heating from the central star stabilizes
the disc; no spiral arms form in this case. Hence, discs are even
less prone to fragment in their inner regions when the eﬀect
of stellar irradiation is taken into account. This result agrees
with previous simulation of discs heated by envelope radia-
tion (Boss 2001, 2002; Cai et al. 2007). It is also in accordance
with previous analytical calculations (Matzner & Levin 2005;
Raﬁkov 2005; Whitworth & Stamatellos 2006). Whitworth &
Stamatellos (2006) argue fragmentation is possible at larger
distances (>∼100 AU) from the central star where the cooling
times are suﬃciently short. However, their results suggest that
fragmentation at large radii produces mostly brown dwarfs and
occasionally low-mass hydrogen-burning stars or planetary-
mass objects (Whitworth & Stamatellos 2006; Whitworth et
al. 2007; Stamatellos, Hubber & Whitworth 2007). If plane-
tary mass objects form at such large radii they are unlikely to
migrate inwards to become hot Jupiters. More likely they are
ejected into the ﬁeld though 3-body interactions.
Hence, based on the simulations presented in this paper, we
conclude that gas giant planets probably cannot form close to
the central star by gravitational fragmentation of discs.
Acknowledgements. We would like to thank R. Durisen, A. Boley and
K. Rice for useful discussions. The computations reported here were
performed using the UK Astrophysical Fluids Facility (UKAFF). We
also acknowledge support by PPARC grant PP/E000967/1.
