arXiv:1901.06488v1  [physics.optics]  19 Jan 2019
Nonlinearity in the dark: Broadband terahertz generation with extremely high
eﬃciency
Ming Fang,1, 2 Nian-Hai Shen,1, ∗Wei E.I. Sha,3 Zhixiang Huang,2, † Thomas Koschny,1 and Costas M. Soukoulis1, 4
1Ames Laboratory—U.S. DOE and Department of Physics and Astronomy, Iowa State University, Ames, Iowa 50011, USA
2Key Laboratory of Intelligent Computing and Signal Processing,
Ministry of Education, Anhui University, Hefei 230039, China
3Key Laboratory of Micro-nano Electronic Devices and Smart Systems of Zhejiang Province,
College of Information Science and Electronic Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China
4Institute of Electronic Structure and Lasers (IESL), FORTH, 71110 Heraklion, Crete, Greece
(Dated: January 23, 2019)
Plasmonic metamaterials and metasurfaces oﬀer new opportunities in developing high perfor-
mance terahertz emitters/detectors beyond the limitations of conventional nonlinear materials. How-
ever, simple meta-atoms for second-order nonlinear applications encounter fundamental trade-oﬀs
in the necessary symmetry-breaking and local-ﬁeld enhancement due to radiation damping that is
inherent to the operating resonant mode and cannot be controlled separately. Here we present a
novel concept that eliminates this restriction obstructing the improvement of terahertz generation
eﬃciency in nonlinear metasurfaces based on metallic nano-resonators. This is achieved by comb-
ing a resonant dark-state metasurface, which locally drives nonlinear SRRs in the near ﬁeld, with
a speciﬁc spatial symmetry that enables destructive interference of the radiating linear moments
of the SRRs, and perfect absorption via simultaneous electric and magnetic critical coupling of
the pump radiation to the dark mode. Our proposal allows eliminating linear radiation damping,
while maintaining constructive interference and eﬀective radiation of the nonlinear components. We
numerically demonstrate a giant second-order nonlinear susceptibility ∼10−11 m/V, one order im-
provement compared to previously reported split-ring-resonator metasurface, and correspondingly,
two orders of magnitude enhanced terahertz energy extraction should be expected with our conﬁgu-
ration under the same conditions. Our study oﬀers a paradigm of high eﬃciency tunable nonlinear
meta-devices and paves the way to revolutionary terahertz technologies and optoelectronic nano-
circuitry.
PACS numbers: 78.67.Pt, 42.65.-k, 42.25.Bs
Keywords: terahertz generation, metasurface, perfect absorption, dark state
Following the emergence of quantum-cascade lasers [1–
3] and ultrafast photoconductive switches [4], terahertz
(THz), a historically mysterious electromagnetic spec-
trum bridging microwaves and optics, in the past two
decades has gained signiﬁcant progresses in technolo-
gies, leading to tremendous transformative applications
in sensing, imaging and communication etc [4–9]. The
blooming of THz technologies and related applications at
current stage demand urgently eﬃcient and compact THz
emitters/detectors, yet the development of which remains
challenging. Many state-of-the-art THz sources are based
on nonlinear optical rectiﬁcation or diﬀerence-frequency
generation (DFG) in inorganic crystals, which suﬀer from
the drawbacks of either narrow bandwidth, subtle phase-
matching limitations, inevitable spectrum gaps or low
emission intensity [1–3, 10–13]. Surpassing natural ma-
terials, the freedom of designing our own subwavelength-
scale atoms as building blocks of metamaterials or meta-
surfaces has shown great ﬂexibilities in achieving versa-
tile functions in diﬀerent disciplines [14–26]. The coex-
istence of resonant nonlinearity and local ﬁeld enhance-
ment in properly designed meta-atoms [23, 27–32] open
up an alternative route for high-eﬃciency nonlinear de-
vices that eliminates those common restrictions. Screen-
ing eﬀects of the free-electron gas at the surface of metal-
lic nanoparticles lead to strong second-order nonlinearity
in their optical electric susceptibility, which contribute
constructively for the area of the metasurface with the
speciﬁcally designed non-symmetric shape of meta-atoms
[33, 34].
Very recently, a metasurface of 40 nm-thick
split-ring resonators (SRRs) was demonstrated to gener-
ate broadband gapless THz emission (up to 4 THz) with
the conversion eﬃciency close to 0.2 mm-thick optimal
ZnTe crystals [35]. Despite of being a seminal progress
toward compact tailorable THz sources even subwave-
length all-optical active devices beneﬁting next gener-
ation computations and communications, the nonlinear
optical response reported in this work is still fairly weak.
Therefore, a fundamental improvement in the nonlinear
eﬃciency with metasurface-based devices is critical.
In this Letter, we reveal a fundamental limit of con-
version eﬃciency in nonlinear metasurfaces, and accord-
ingly, we propose a dark-mode-assisted perfect absorbing
metasurface for THz generation that allows to circum-
vent it.
We demonstrate broadband THz emissions of
the metasurface with giant eﬃciency, about two orders
stronger compared to that of conventional SRR metasur-
face [35]. This opens up the opportunities for not only
revolutionary THz technologies but also high eﬃciency
on-chip nonlinear nano-optical devices.

2
Analyzing the performance of the SRR metasurface
and we ﬁnd that the major obstacles limiting the non-
linear conversion eﬃciency are dissipative and radiative
damping due to linear scattering. These two loss chan-
nels essentially govern the amplitude of the local near
ﬁeld, which in turn reduces the possible THz emission
intensity.
For the second-order nonlinearity, the ratio
of generated THz signal to scattered pump radiation is
directly proportional to the local near-ﬁeld amplitude,
thus the linear radiation damping reduces the THz out-
put. While the dissipative loss is hard to minimize and
essentially given by the available constituent materials,
we, therefore, target the radiative loss channel. Theo-
retically, we should be able to tackle these restrictions
and approach the critical limit in nonlinear eﬃciency
of a metasurface: a properly designed perfect absorbing
metasurface is applied to eliminate the linear radiative
damping and a low-loss dielectric dark element can be
introduced for high quality-factor strong local ﬁeld en-
hancement to drive the plasmonic nanoparticles, which
are generating the nonlinear signals.
In order to implement the concept, we tried to separate
the resonant local ﬁeld enhancement from the current
topology necessary for non-vanishing second-order non-
linearity. Instead of driving the SRR directly, we used a
resonant dark bound state in a silicon ﬁlm with a sub-
wavelength thickness to create local ﬁeld enhancement
and the strong evanescent surface ﬁelds of this quasi-
surface mode then drive the SRRs.
The low-loss di-
electric dark state allows us to concentrate signiﬁcant
amounts of electromagnetic ﬁeld energy in the metasur-
face and to create a high Q-factor with strong local ﬁeld
enhancement. Figure 1(a) presents the schematic unit of
our designed metasurface THz emitter. Two gold SRRs
(thickness tm), oriented in the same direction, asymmet-
rically sit on the two sides of a thin Si slab (thickness h),
which is periodically punctuated by metal walls (gold,
width 2a). The two SRRs are not only the key element
for THz emission via DFG, but also serve as a bridge cou-
pling the incident wave into the dark element (Si slab).
The introduction of metal walls is to quantize the modes
of the dielectric slab achieving a set of discrete resonant
dark states (see Fig. 1(b)).
Depending on the branch
of the dispersion, we may choose one desired mode fre-
quency with the speciﬁc corresponding spatial distribu-
tion of the composite system for operation. Here, for sim-
plicity, we select the second quantized mode on the lowest
branch of dispersion for the dielectric slab, that is, TE2,0
mode (marked by red circle in Fig. 1(b)), which gives
an anti-symmetric proﬁle of the electric ﬁeld as shown in
Fig. 1(a), a dark mode not being able to directly couple
to the incident plane wave. The geometric parameters
of the unit are designed to have the length L = 800 nm,
width W = 240 nm and thickness h = 100 nm, so the
operation wavelength is tuned within the typical high-
speed telecommunications range at around 1.5 µm. The
thickness of SRRs is set as tm = 50 nm.
Infrared laser beam
z
x
y
50 nm
150 nm
50 nm
50 nm
L
a
h
W
(a)
(b)
k//=π/L
k//=2π/L
ω=ck//
=ck///nSi
In-plane wavenumber k//h/π
Frequency ωh/πc
ω
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0
0.05
0.3
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
TE1,0
TE2,0
FIG. 1. Designed dark-mode THz emitter and principle of op-
eration. (a) Schematics of the meta-atom of designed meta-
surface THz emitter. (b) Dispersion diagram of the system.
The solid (red) line shows the lowest TE-branch and vertical
dashed (blue) lines indicate the quantization of eigenmodes.
The blue dots are the quantized eigenstates of lowest TE
branch, and the red circle indicates the TE2,0 mode adopted
in this work.
Coupling of the pump radiation to the resonant dark
state can be achieved via the non-resonant weak SRR
scatterers, which is designed to simultaneously couple
both the electric and magnetic component of the pump
to the resonant dark state by creating equivalent elec-
tric and magnetic eﬀective surface susceptibilities in the
metasurface. In-phase linear currents in the two SRRs
created electric moments and anti-phase linear currents
in SRRs on opposing sides of the ﬁlm created magnetic
moments and absolute and relative strength of both can
be controlled by the symmetry and lateral positioning of
the SRRs. By shifting the positions of the two SRRs,
i.e., ∆x1 and ∆x2, the energy of excitation exchanged
to the dark state indeed can be controlled purposely.
Upon the excitation of the TE2,0 mode in the Si slab,
out-of-phase polarization currents I1 and I2 are induced

3
FIG. 2. Equivalent current sheet. (a) Polarization currents on two SRRs (I1 and I2) can be decomposed to the set of symmetric
(IS) and antisymmetric (IA) currents, equivalently described by electric (σ(e)
s ) and magnetic (σ(m)
s
) sheet conductivities. (b)
and (c) Maps of σ(e)
s
and σ(m)
s
in dependence of positions of the two SRRs. Black dots indicate the optimized case of the system
showing the highest absorption.
in the two SRRs, which can be decomposed to sym-
metric (corresponding to an electric moment along y-
axis) and anti-symmetric (corresponding to a magnetic
moment along x-axis) polarization sets, respectively, as
shown in Fig. 2(a). Balancing the electric and magnetic
coupling allowed for impedance match, hence, eliminat-
ing the reﬂection of the pump energy. Tuning the cou-
pling strength to a critical case also allowed us to further
eliminate the linear transmitted ﬁeld, thus leading to a
complete channeling of the incident pump energy into
the dark resonant state and dissipative loss in the metal
structures. Consequently, the proposed metasurface can
be characterized by the set of electric and magnetic sheet
conductivities, i.e., σ(e)
s
and σ(m)
s
, which are directly con-
nected with the scattering properties, i.e., reﬂection, R
and transmission, T, of the metasurface in expressions of:
R = 2(ζσ(e)
s
−ζ−1σ(m)
s
)/(4+2ζσ(e)
s
+2ζ−1σ(m)
s
+σ(e)
s σ(m)
s
)
and T = (4−σ(e)
s σ(m)
s
)/(4+2ζσ(e)
s
+2ζ−1σ(m)
s
+σ(e)
s σ(m)
s
),
where ζ is the wave impedance [36].
An ideal per-
fect absorbing sheet should fulﬁll the condition ζσ(e)
s
=
ζ−1σ(m)
s
= 2. For our design, we calculated the sheet con-
ductivities in dependence of (∆x1,∆x2) with a scanning
step size of 5 nm, balancing the simulation resolution and
cost. The results are shown in Figs. 2(b) and 2(c), from
which, the optimal case may be picked at ∆x1 ∼= 70 nm
and ∆x2 ∼= 470 nm with ζ|σ(e)
s | = ζ−1|σ(m)
s
| = 1.8 and
the corresponding absorption reaches as high as 94% (see
below in Fig. 3).
Depending on the relative positions of the two SRRs,
tunable linear radiation damping can be achieved as
shown in Fig. 3(a).
For the optimized conﬁguration
with nearly perfect absorption, Fig. 3(b) presents the
calculated transmission (T), reﬂection (R) and absorp-
tion (A) spectra for the optimized conﬁguration, with
the shaded area indicating the dissipation in the two
SRRs. In Fig. 3(c), we show the ﬁeld distributions, i.e.,
y-component of the electric ﬁeld, Ey, indicated in color
and the magnetic ﬁeld, H, marked with black arrows, in
x-z plane perpendicularly across the center of Si slab at
y = 0. From Fig. 3(c) we see that the high quality-factor
TE2,0 mode of the Si slab is strongly excited, featuring
an anti-symmetric electric ﬁeld proﬁle, leading to a dra-
matic ﬁeld enhancement around SRRs. Considering the
metal walls always coincide with a ﬁeld minimum of the
dark mode, most of the incident energy will be dissipated
in SRRs and converted to nonlinear signals. We need to
point out that the dimensions of the SRRs are not criti-
cal, provided that the requirements of proper dark-mode
frequency and perfect absorption for eliminating the lin-
ear radiation are fulﬁlled.
For the nonlinear process, THz radiation, we can
choose to re-use the two SRRs, which are anyway neces-
sary for providing nonlinearity. Since the desired DFG
(or also second-harmonic generation) are second order
in the electric ﬁled E, the sign of the currents does not
matter and the nonlinear radiation of both SRRs adds
constructively in the far ﬁeld. The linear radiation, how-
ever, is opposite in phase and cancels in the far ﬁeld, thus
completely eliminating linear radiation damping. Since
radiation damping of the scattered linear ﬁelds, after lo-
cal dissipation, is the second biggest loss channel in the

4
(c)
FIG. 3. Scattering properties of the metasurface. (a) Nor-
malized linear radiation damping as each scatterer is shifted
along the unit cell, black dots indicate the optimized case. (b)
Transmission, reﬂection and absorption spectra for the opti-
mized metasurface. The gray-shaded region shows the dissi-
pation in two SRRs. (c) Color plot shows the y-component of
the electric ﬁeld, Ey, and black arrows indicate the magnetic
ﬁeld, H, in x-z plane across the center of the meta-atom.
conversion of pump energy to THz radiation via DFG,
this cancellation can signiﬁcantly increase the eﬃciency.
Consequently, the two SRRs, driven by the TE2,0 mode of
the slab, show same second-order nonlinear dynamic but
opposite linear electric and magnetic dipole moments,
resulting in linear radiation cancellation and signiﬁcant
enhancement of THz radiation. By illuminating the de-
signed metasurface with a laser pulse at the resonant fre-
quency of the dark mode, strong THz emission from the
SRRs will be observed due to DFG arising from the elec-
tron gas in the metal of the SRRs, which can be described
by the hydrodynamic model [33, 34] (see Supplemental
Material for details). In the model, the convection term
plays the crucial role for the second-order nonlinearities,
qualitatively contributing in the format as the product
of current and accumulated charge density on the metal
surface.
For a rigorous analysis of THz radiation from the meta-
surface, we performed a self-consistent FDTD calcula-
tion based on the hydrodynamic model and Maxwells
equations (see Supplemental Material). A temporal op-
tical pulse was applied, Ey(t) = E0exp[−2ln(2)(t −
t0)2/τ 2]cos(ω0t), where the driving frequency equals the
resonant frequency of the dark mode, i.e., ω0 = ωdark,
the pulse duration τ = 140 fs (spectral width ∼3.2 THz)
and peak amplitude E0 = 2 × 107 V/m (see Supple-
mental Material for our estimation to thermal damage
threshold of the metasurface). In our calculations, both
linear and nonlinear dynamics of the electron gas under
the infrared light excitation have been fully considered.
FIG. 4. Terahertz enhancement of our design. (a) THz inten-
sity enhancement map of our design. (b) Time trace of THz
radiation from design (red) compared to that from traditional
SRR metasurface (blue). (c) Terahertz signal strength in de-
pendence of pump power for our design (red squares) and for
traditional SRRs (blue dots). The straight lines are from lin-
ear ﬁtting. (d) Distributions of DFG currents (black arrows)
and charge density (color plot) of the SRRs. “+” and “−”
indicate charge accumulations.
In Fig. 4(a), we show a performance map of our pro-
posed THz emitter in term of THz enhancement deﬁned
as ηdark/ηSRR, where ηdark and ηSRR represent the THz
conversion eﬃciency of our system and that of the tra-
ditional SRR metasurface [35] (as a reference), respec-
tively. By properly settling the two SRRs, we can sig-
niﬁcantly eliminate the radiation damping, resulting in
more than 120-fold enhancement in THz emission power
compared to the reference case. Note that the THz en-
hancements for diﬀerent conﬁgurations are inversely pro-
portional to the linear radiation damping as shown in
Fig. 4(a). Figure 4(b) gives typical time-domain trace
detected at the receiving port for our metasurface THz
emitter compared to that for the reference SRR case.
Upon increasing the pump pulse intensity, the generated
THz signal amplitude increases linearly as presented in
Fig. 4(c), and our design does show a dramatic emission
enhancement over the analog dependence for the con-
ventional SRR metasurface under the same conditions.
In Fig.
4(d), we illustrate the charge density distribu-
tion (marked in color) and the currents (indicated with
arrows) in the two SRRs at the maximum THz conver-
sion eﬃciency. Both SRRs, possessing the same polar-
ization with negligible phase diﬀerence, contribute to the
THz emission (polarized along x−axis) coherently, the
superposition of which leads to the total enhanced THz
radiation, emitting perpendicular to the metasurface on

5
both sides (see Supplemental Material). Moreover, the
radiated THz signal polarized in the x-direction can be
written in terms of second-order nonlinear susceptibility
χ(2) of the metasurface as ETHz
x
(ω) ∼χ(2)ω2e−ω2τ 2 ⇒
ETHz
x
(t) ∼χ(2)(1 −2t2/τ 2)e−t2/τ 2/τ 2.
The THz signal depends on the temporal envelope of
the incident pulse, and THz spectrum has the peak at
ω = 2/τ with a bandwidth ∆ωFWHM ≈2.31/τ. From
the ﬁeld of second harmonic radiation, we evaluated the
eﬀective nonlinear susceptibility of our designed meta-
surface χ(2)
dark ≈2.4 × 10−11 m/V, while that of the tradi-
tional SRR metasurface χ(2)
SRR ≈1.7 × 10−12 m/V (con-
sistent with the reported 1.6 × 10−12 m/V in [35]).The
discussions to the case with substrate can be found in
Supplemental Material. In the view of potential exper-
iments, conversion eﬃciency is an important parameter
for an intuitive evaluation on nonlinear energy extraction.
In practice, for a speciﬁc experimental setup, it depends
on many factors, such as pump power, pump polariza-
tion, pulse duration, incidence and focusing conditions,
phase-matching, etc. Our theoretical work described here
resolves a fundamental problem obstructing the improve-
ment of THz generation eﬃciency with nonlinear meta-
surfaces, and to understand the fundamental physics, we
considered a simpliﬁed model of a spatially inﬁnite sur-
face under plane-wave illumination, so the model is less
suitable to predict practical absolute numbers as would
be observed in a particular experiment. Therefore, we
conducted a side-by-side comparison between the con-
ventional, not radiation-managed SRR metasurface [35],
for which experimental data is available, and our conﬁgu-
ration, which eliminates linear radiation damping, within
the same numerical simulations. It is revealed our scheme
has χ(2) more than one order of magnitude larger than
that of the regular SRR metasurface, and consequently
would generate over two-order enhanced THz emission
under the same conditions.
On the other hand, Ref.
[35] reported that the SRR metasurface experimentally
showed about the same order of THz generation as a 0.2
mm-thick ZnTe crystal, so our proposed conﬁguration
should show a much better performance in generating
broadband THz emission in real experiments.
In conclusion, our proposed system demonstrates ef-
fective suppression of radiation damping and extremely
high-eﬃciency THz generations with a speciﬁcally de-
signed metasurface.
Such signiﬁcant improvements in
nonlinear conversion eﬃciency were made possible by our
judiciously designed dark-element-integrated perfect ab-
sorbing sheet, which essentially tackled the common ef-
ﬁciency limit in two crucial aspects, i.e., eliminating ra-
diative damping of linear scatterings and enhancing local
ﬁeld for nonlinear signals. Although our design presented
in this Letter aims for eﬃcient and compact THz genera-
tions, the new concept is general and applicable to other
nonlinear processes. We believe the ﬂexibilities in tailor-
ing meta-atoms of metamaterials specially metasurfaces
will open up new opportunities for THz technologies de-
velopment and versatile nanoscale nonlinear devices.
Work at Ames Laboratory was supported by the US
Department of Energy, Oﬃce of Basic Energy Science,
Division of Materials Science and Engineering (Ames
Laboratory is operated for the US Department of En-
ergy by Iowa State University under contract No. DE-
AC02-07CH11358).
Work at FORTH was supported
by the European Research Council under the ERC
Advanced Grant No.
320081 (PHOTOMETA). The
work was also supported by NSFC (Nos.
61601166,
61701001,61701003), National Natural Science Fund for
Excellent Young Scholars (No. 61722101), Universities
Natural Science Foundation of Anhui Province (Nos.
KJ2017ZD51 and KJ2017ZD02), and Thousand Talents
Program for Distinguished Young Scholars of China. The
authors would like to thank Peng Zhang, Liang Luo and
Xu Yang for fruitful discussions.
∗nhshen@ameslab.gov
† zxhuang@ahu.edu.cn
[1] R. K¨ohler, A. Tredicucci, F. Beltram, H. E. Beere, E. H.
Linﬁeld, A. G. Davies, D. A. Ritchie, R. C. Iotti,
and
F. Rossi, Nature 417, 156 (2002).
[2] B. S. Williams, Nat. Photon. 1, 517 (2007).
[3] G.
Scalari,
C.
Walther,
M.
Fischer,
R.
Ter-
azzi,
H.
Beere,
D.
Ritchie,
and
J.
Faist,
Laser Photon. Rev. 3, 45 (2009).
[4] M. Tonouchi, Nat. Photon. 1, 97 (2007).
[5] D.
M.
Mittleman,
Sensing with Terahertz Radiation,
Vol. 85 (Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg,
2003).
[6] H.
J.
Song
and
T.
Nagatsuma,
IEEE Trans. Terahertz Sci. Technol. 1, 256 (2011).
[7] P. Siegel, IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech. 50, 910 (2002).
[8] C. Jansen, S. Wietzke, O. Peters, M. Scheller, N. Vieweg,
M. Salhi, N. Krumbholz, C. J¨ordens, T. Hochrein, and
M. Koch, Appl. Opt. 49, E48 (2010).
[9] J.
Federici
and
L.
Moeller,
J.
Appl.
Phys.,
107, 111101 (2010).
[10] R. A. Lewis, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 47 (2014).
[11] B. Ferguson and X. C. Zhang, Nat. Mater. 1, 26 (2002).
[12] M. A. Belkin, F. Capasso, A. Belyanin, D. L. Sivco, A. Y.
Cho, D. C. Oakley, C. J. Vineis,
and G. W. Turner,
Nat. Photon. 1, 288 (2007).
[13] Z. Yang, L. Mutter, M. Stillhart, B. Ruiz, S. Aravazhi,
M. Jazbinsek, A. Schneider, V. Gramlich, and P. G¨unter,
Adv. Funct. Mater. 17, 2018 (2007).
[14] N. Engheta, Science 317, 1698 (2007).
[15] C.
M.
Soukoulis
and
M.
Wegener,
Nat. Photon. 5, 523 (2011).
[16] A.
F.
Koenderink,
A.
Al`u,
and
A.
Polman,
Science 348, 516 (2015).
[17] H.
T.
Chen,
A.
J.
Taylor,
and
N.
Yu,
Rep. Prog. Phys. 79, 076401 (2016).
[18] N. K. Grady, J. E. Heyes, D. R. Chowdhury, Y. Zeng,
M. T. Reiten, A. K. Azad, A. J. Taylor, D. A. Dalvit,

6
and H. T. Chen, Science 340, 1304 (2013).
[19] V. G. Kravets, F. Schedin, R. Jalil, L. Britnell, R. V.
Gorbachev, D. Ansell, B. Thackray, K. S. Novoselov,
A. K. Geim, A. V. Kabashin,
and A. N. Grigorenko,
Nat. Mater. 12, 304 (2013).
[20] N.
Meinzer,
W.
L.
Barnes,
and
I.
R.
Hooper,
Nat. Photon. 8, 889 (2014).
[21] A. V. Kildishev, A. Boltasseva,
and V. M. Shalaev,
Science 339, 1232009 (2013).
[22] N. Yu, P. Genevet, M. A. Kats, F. Aieta, J.-P. Tetienne,
F. Capasso, and Z. Gaburro, Science 334, 333 (2011).
[23] A. E. Minovich, A. E. Miroshnichenko, A. Y. Bykov,
T. V. Murzina, D. N. Neshev,
and Y. S. Kivshar,
Laser Photon. Rev. 9, 195 (2015).
[24] N.
I.
Zheludev
and
Y.
S.
Kivshar,
Nat. Mater. 11, 917 (2012).
[25] A. Baev, P. N. Prasad, H. ˚Agren, M. Samo´c, and M. We-
gener, Phys. Rep. 594, 1 (2015).
[26] N. Yu and F. Capasso, Nat. Mater. 13, 139 (2014).
[27] S.
Linden,
F.
B.
P.
Niesler,
J.
F¨orstner,
Y.
Grynko,
T.
Meier,
and
M.
Wegener,
Phys. Rev. Lett. 109, 015502 (2012).
[28] P. Ginzburg, A. Krasavin, Y. Sonnefraud, A. Murphy,
R. J. Pollard, S. A. Maier, and A. V. Zayats, Phys. Rev.
B 86, 085422 (2012).
[29] M. Lapine,
I. V. Shadrivov,
and Y. S. Kivshar,
Rev. Mod. Phys. 86, 1093 (2014).
[30] H. Husu,
R. Siikanen,
J. M¨akitalo,
J. Lehtolahti,
J.
Laukkanen,
M.
Kuittinen,
and
M.
Kauranen,
Nano Lett. 12, 673 (2012).
[31] O. Wolf, S. Campione, A. Benz, A. P. Ravikumar, S. Liu,
T. S. Luk, E. A. Kadlec, E. A. Shaner, J. F. Klem, M. B.
Sinclair, and I. Brener, Nat. Commun. 6, 7667 (2015).
[32] M.
Kauranen
and
A.
V.
Zayats,
Nat. Photon. 6, 737 (2012).
[33] C. Cirac`ı, E. Poutrina, M. Scalora,
and D. R. Smith,
Phys. Rev. B 85, 201403 (2012).
[34] Y. Zeng, W. Hoyer, J. Liu, S. W. Koch,
and J. V.
Moloney, Phys. Rev. B 79, 235109 (2009).
[35] L. Luo,
I. Chatzakis,
J. Wang,
F. B. P. Niesler,
M. Wegener,
T. Koschny,
and C. M. Soukoulis,
Nat. Commun. 5, 3055 (2014).
[36] P.
Tassin,
T.
Koschny,
and
C.
M.
Soukoulis,
Phys. B Condens. Matter 407, 4062 (2012).
