From Words to Wheels: Automated Style-Customized Policy Generation
for Autonomous Driving
Xu Han1, Xianda Chen2, Zhenghan Cai3, Pinlong Cai4, Meixin Zhu2, Xiaowen Chu1∗
Abstract— Autonomous driving technology has witnessed
rapid advancements, with foundation models improving inter-
activity and user experiences. However, current autonomous ve-
hicles (AVs) face significant limitations in delivering command-
based driving styles. Most existing methods either rely on
predefined driving styles that require expert input or use
data-driven techniques like Inverse Reinforcement Learning to
extract styles from driving data. These approaches, though
effective in some cases, face challenges: difficulty obtaining
specific driving data for style matching (e.g., in Robotaxis),
inability to align driving style metrics with user preferences,
and limitations to pre-existing styles, restricting customization
and generalization to new commands. This paper introduces
Words2Wheels, a framework that automatically generates cus-
tomized driving policies based on natural language user com-
mands. Words2Wheels employs a Style-Customized Reward
Function to generate a Style-Customized Driving Policy without
relying on prior driving data. By leveraging large language
models and a Driving Style Database, the framework efficiently
retrieves, adapts, and generalizes driving styles. A Statistical
Evaluation module ensures alignment with user preferences.
Experimental results demonstrate that Words2Wheels out-
performs existing methods in accuracy, generalization, and
adaptability, offering a novel solution for customized AV driving
behavior. Code and demo available at https://yokhon.
github.io/Words2Wheels/.
I. INTRODUCTION
Autonomous driving technology has advanced rapidly,
especially with the rise of foundation models that improve
interactivity and user experience [1]–[4]. Despite these ad-
vancements, significant room for improvement remains, par-
ticularly regarding user experience. One key criticism is the
uniform driving style of current autonomous vehicles (AVs)
[5]–[7]. For example, 52.46% of AVs involved in crashes
were rear-ended, 1.6 times the rate of conventional vehicles,
highlighting the need for gentler braking styles [8].
Driving style, or the characteristic way a vehicle operates,
is crucial for autonomous driving [9]. While many studies
have explored driving styles, early approaches relied heavily
on classification or calibration of predefined styles or driving
patterns [10]–[16]. For instance, Wang et al. used a hidden
semi-Markov model to extract driving patterns [17], and
Deng et al. applied a hidden Markov model to braking anal-
ysis [18]. However, these manually designed styles depend
*Corresponding author: Xiaowen Chu, xwchu@ust.hk
1Data Science and Analytics Thrust, Information Hub, The Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Guangzhou, China
2Intelligent Transportation Thrust, Systems Hub, The Hong Kong Uni-
versity of Science and Technology (Guangzhou), Guangzhou, China
3Department of Automation, School of Electrical Automation and Infor-
mation Engineering,Tianjin University, Tianjin, China
4Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Shanghai, China
This is a preprint version.
User Command
Please brake more gently!
Style Reward
Finding the best suited function.
Style Policy
Satisfying the user command.
Fig. 1.
Words2Wheels automatically generates customized driving policies
in alignment with user commands by LLM-powered reward design.
heavily on expert input, making the process cumbersome and
subjective, requiring frequent adjustments [19].
In recent years, data-driven approaches have gained trac-
tion, using methods such as clustering and Inverse Reinforce-
ment Learning (IRL) to derive driving policies with varying
styles from natural driving behavior data [20]–[25]. Zhao et
al. uses model-based IRL to learn and adapt to individual
driver preferences from historical data [26]. Rosbach et al.
applied maximum entropy IRL to automatically tune re-
ward functions based on human driving demonstrations [27].
Nevertheless, these approaches face several challenges when
applied to autonomous driving. Firstly, they require a small
amount of driving behavior data to match with a specific
driving style, but obtaining such data is particularly difficult
in Robotaxi scenarios, leading to issues with style matching
[26]. Secondly, the metrics used to quantify driving styles are
diverse, and the inability to prioritize these metrics according
to user preferences can severely restrict the effectiveness of
style matching. Lastly, these methods are limited to selecting
from existing styles and cannot customize a style based
on user needs, potentially leading to situations where no
existing style aligns with the user command, known as the
generalization problem [28], [29]. These challenges limit the
applicability of these methods in autonomous driving.
More recently, foundation models have been explored to
process user instructions [30]–[34]. Cui et al. integrated large
language models (LLMs) to personalize driving experiences
through dynamic interaction [35], while Yang et al. aligned
LLM-powered agents with human driving styles from inter-
views [36]. While these methods can adjust specific behav-
iors like speed and lane changes based on natural language
input, they fall short in adjusting the overall driving policy
at the style level [30], [35]. Additionally, these approaches
often involve the foundation model in most decision loops,
raising concerns about reliability and efficiency [37], [38].
To address these challenges, we propose Words2Wheels,
a framework for automatically customizing driving policies
based on user commands. The core innovation is the use
arXiv:2409.11694v1  [cs.RO]  18 Sep 2024

A. Automated Policy Customization
B. Driving Style Database
C. Statistical Evaluation
Reserved
test set
Key metrics
identification
Comparison with
natural Stats
Driving Style 1 (Data-Driven)
Driving Style 2 (Data-Driven)
Driving Style 3 (Manual Design)
… …
Style Matching
Command Cognition
Online Policy Update
Style-Customized Reward
Function (Style Reward)
Statistics on Test set
(Stats)
Style-Customized Driving
Policy (Style Policy)
Style Policy Assessment
LLM involved
RL involved
Backend processing
Style Reward Generation
Fig. 2.
(A) Workflow of Words2Wheels: When a natural language command is received, the system matches it with a style from the database. Style
Reward generation and policy training run simultaneously in the backend, resulting in a new Style Policy that may outperform the existing one and replace
it. (B) Driving Style Database: This repository stores Style Rewards (initially from both data-driven and human-designed methods), Style Policies, and
their statistics. It manages the increasing variety of driving styles and supports the automated policy customization. (C) Statistical Evaluation Module:
This module ensures that the generated driving styles closely align with user commands by evaluating them against natural driving behaviors.
of a Style-Customized Reward Function (Style Reward) to
bridge user input and a Style-Customized Driving Policy
(Style Policy), as shown in Fig. 1. In Reinforcement Learn-
ing (RL), the reward function guides the driving policy to
optimize long-term rewards and serves as a policy index
[39]. These Style Rewards are less complex than user com-
mands or traffic scenarios, enabling efficient retrieval of Style
Policy [40]. By leveraging LLMs and Retrieval-Augmented
Generation (RAG) technology [41], Words2Wheels precisely
matches driving styles using quantitative metrics. With
LLMs’ “zero-shot” generation capabilities1, Words2Wheels
can generalize to new commands and styles without user
behavior data. The framework is also extensible, allowing
for features like fuzzy memory via LLMs.
To ensure the Style Policy matches user commands, we de-
veloped two key modules. First, the Driving Style Database,
a repository containing Style Rewards, Style Policies, and
statistical features such as jerk during braking, as shown in
Fig. 2. These features guide the LLM’s analysis, enabling fast
selection of appropriate Style Policies and generation of new
Style Rewards when needed. New Style Policies that outper-
form existing ones can replace them, with all updates added
to the database, continuously expanding the style range.
Second, the Statistical Evaluation module measures how
well the Style Policy aligns with the user command. Using
a reserved test dataset, this module prevents overfitting and
provides benchmarks for evaluating policies. It automatically
1Zero-shot refers to no need for user driving data here. It’s few-shot in
generating reward functions based on existing Style Rewards.
selects relevant metrics, compares the policies with natural
data, and offers a reliable evaluation of driving style.
To the best of our knowledge, Words2Wheels is the first
framework that automatically customizes style-aware driving
policies to align with natural language user commands. The
primary contributions of this paper include:
• Developing the Words2Wheels framework, which auto-
matically customizes driving policies to bridge the gap
between user preferences and driving behavior.
• Introducing a conceptual Driving Style Database that
enables efficient retrieval and continuous enrichment of
driving styles based on user commands.
• Designing a Statistical Evaluation module to automat-
ically and accurately measure the alignment between
driving policies and user commands.
• Conducting comprehensive experiments to validate the
effectiveness of Words2Wheels, demonstrating its capa-
bilities in accuracy, generalization, and reliability.
II. PROBLEM FORMULATION
A. Markov Decision Process
In autonomous driving, decision-making is often mod-
eled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) [42], [43]. An
MDP consists of states S representing possible environment
configurations, actions A available to the vehicle, transition
probabilities P(s′|s, a) for moving between states, a reward
function R(s, a) that provides feedback for actions, and a
discount factor γ that balances future rewards. The goal is
to find a policy π that maximizes the expected cumulative
reward, E [P∞
t=0 γtR(st, at)].

Reinforcement Learning (RL) is employed to identify the
optimal policy π∗, which maximizes this reward. The agent
learns by interacting with the environment—observing states,
taking actions, and receiving rewards. The optimal value
function V ∗(s), representing the expected cumulative reward
from state s, satisfies the Bellman equation [39]:
V ∗(s) = max
a∈A
"
R(s, a) + γ
X
s′∈S
P(s′|s, a)V ∗(s′)
#
IRL focuses on recovering the reward function R(s, a)
from expert demonstrations [44], inferring the reward that
makes the observed policy optimal. This enables the vehicle
to replicate human-like decision-making.
Both RL and IRL are essential for developing autonomous
systems, enabling them to learn from simulations and real-
world data [45], [46].
B. Driving Style Alignment
In autonomous driving, users often express their prefer-
ences for driving styles in natural language. The task is
to generate a driving policy πstyle that aligns with a user-
specified driving style, expressed as a command C.
The Driving Style Alignment problem is formulated as:
1) User Command Interpretation: Given a natural lan-
guage command C that describes the desired driving
style, the system must interpret the command and map
it to a driving style representation θstyle ∈Θ. This
mapping is expressed as:
F : C →Θ
where C ∈C is the user command, and F(C) =
θstyle is the inferred driving style representation, which
indicates the reward function R(s, a) in this work.
2) Driving Policy Generation and Optimization: Based
on the interpreted driving style θstyle, the system
generates a driving policy πstyle that minimizes the
deviation from the user’s expected behavior, described
by C. This step can be expressed as:
π∗
style = G(θstyle) = arg min
π∈Π d(π, C)
where G : Θ →Π maps the driving style θstyle to the
optimal policy π∗
style ∈Π, minimizing the deviation
d(π, C) from the expected behavior. This mapping G
is conducted by RL in the Words2Wheels framework.
III. METHODOLOGY
A. Automated Generation
Upon receiving a user command like “I’m late. Hurry up!”,
the Words2Wheels system automatically generates a driving
policy aligned with the directive. As shown in Fig. 3, the
process starts by applying RAG principles, where the LLM
selects the top k relevant style rewards from the Driving
Style Database, improving focus and task performance. This
step can be parallelized for efficiency.
Found similar command: No.
Selected function: 1.
New function code 1: def _get_reward(self): …
New function code 2: def _get_reward(self): …
…
LLM
Your task is to design appropriate reward functions based on user 
commands. Please follow the steps in <Statistical Evaluation> 
and select k most relevant reward functions.
User content: I’m late. Hurry up!
Reward functions: [{“id”: 1, “stats”: {“Speed”: {“mean”: 21.2, 
“sd”: 5.0, “max”: 25.8, …}, “Time Headway”: {…}, …}, “code”: “def 
_get_reward(self): …”}, {“id”: 2, …}, …].
User
Analysis: The user command suggests a driving style that 
prioritizes speed and quick maneuvers, possibly at the expense of 
comfort and safety. This implies a focus on high acceleration rates, 
as well as potentially higher speeds, …
Selected functions: 1, 5, 7.
LLM
Any selected function has similar matched command? If not, 
please choose the best suited one according to the user
command, and generate m new functions base on it.
User
Analysis: The user command suggests a driving style that …
Selected function: 9.
LLM
We have trained and tested the reward function candidates. 
Please follow the steps in <Statistical Evaluation> and select the 
best suited one from them.
Reward functions: [{“id”: 1, …}, {“id”: 9, …}, …].
User
RAG-based
Command
Cognition
Style
Matching
&
Style
Reward
Generation
Style
Policy
Assessment
Fig. 3.
Example of automated Style Policy generation.
To ensure reliable selection, the LLM consults the Sta-
tistical Evaluation module. If a selected Style Reward has
matched a semantically similar command, Words2Wheels
directly uses its Style Policy (the fuzzy memory function),
enhancing efficiency. If no match is found, the LLM gen-
erates m new reward functions based on the most relevant
Style Reward. The LLM’s generation goes beyond simple pa-
rameter adjustments and may involve logic modifications or
restructuring to handle generalization challenges effectively.
The initially selected Style Reward provides a temporary
solution since its policy is already trained. Meanwhile, the
newly generated reward functions produce new Style Policies
via RL, where the trainings can be parallelized. Finally, using
the Statistical Evaluation module, Words2Wheels determines
if the new policies outperform the temporary one, delivering
the best match to the user command. This process is fully
automated, reducing biases from subjective judgments.
B. Driving Style Database
The Driving Style Database is a key component of
Words2Wheels. As shown in Fig. 2, each record includes
a Style Reward, a Style Policy, and analytical data. Style
Rewards are programming codes, while Style Policies are
stored as pre-trained neural networks. Analytical data, gen-
erated by the Statistical Evaluation module, can be saved

in JSON format. These elements can be embedded as high-
dimensional vectors to improve LLM’s retrieval efficiency.
The database allows the LLM to select existing styles or
use reward functions as templates to generate new ones. It is
beneficial to populate the database with pre-existing reward
functions at the start, which can enhance the quality of
the LLM’s generations. Existing research on driving reward
design provides valuable references, ranging from human-
designed rewards [47], [48] to data-driven rewards derived
from real-world data using clustering and IRL [26], [49].
The greater the variety of reward functions, the more
examples the LLM can reference. As Words2Wheels op-
erates, new driving styles generated by the system expand
the database, creating a broader range of styles and reducing
reliance on RL, improving overall efficiency. User commands
are also stored, enabling the fuzzy memory function.
C. Statistical Evaluation
You need to infer the driving style from the user command. You 
can refer to pre-trained reward functions with key statistical 
metrics reflecting driving styles on a test set. Statistics of natural 
driving behavior on the test set are provided for your comparison.
Statistical metrics: “Speed”: The speed of ego vehicle; “Time 
Headway”: The time gap between the ego vehicle and the 
leading vehicle; “Relative Speed”: The difference in speed ...
Statistics of natural data: {“Speed”: {“mean”: 20.6, “sd”: 5.3, 
“max”: 33.2, …}, “Time Headway”: {…}, “Relative Speed”: {…}, …}
Please follow the instructions step by step:
(1) Select the top n statistical metrics that are most relevant to 
the user command.
(2) Select a pre-trained reward function that aligns with the user 
command most. You should rely on the comparison with the
natural data on the selected metrics.
(3) Answer in JSON format as follows: {"analysis": "Your step by 
step analysis", "selected_function_id": "id"}
User
Fig. 4.
Simplified example of Statistical Evaluation module.
The Statistical Evaluation module is essential for gener-
ating statistical data on driving behavior and helping the
LLM accurately assess how well a Style Policy aligns with
a user command. To ensure reliability, we reserve a test
dataset to simulate driving behavior and collect relevant data.
From this, various metrics are calculated, such as speed,
acceleration, jerk, spacing, and time headway, as informed
by prior research on driving styles [10], [50], [51].
These metrics help the LLM evaluate Style Policies by
comparing the statistics to the user command, as shown
in Fig. 4. The prompt includes a brief introduction to
the metrics and natural driving behavior statistics from the
test set to provide a baseline. Using a Chain-of-Thought
approach [52], the LLM selects the n most relevant metrics
TABLE I
LEVELS OF USER COMMAND
Level
Linguistic Category
Example Commands
Level I
Direct
Drive aggressively.
Level II
Indirect with strong hints
You are braking too harsh.
Level III
Indirect with mild hints
I am going to be late.
and compares the policies to natural driving data, enabling
objective style evaluation.
Customizing the test set allows for expanded functionality.
For instance, setting the test set to a specific Style Policy’s
driving data enables fine-tuning based on that policy. Addi-
tionally, spatio-temporal filtering of test set data can achieve
more precise quantitative analyses.
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS
A. Experimental Setup
In this study, we selected the car-following scenario as
the experimental focus, as it constitutes a significant portion
of driving behavior and effectively reflects diverse driving
styles, making it well-suited for validating our method’s ef-
fectiveness. The experiment utilized the HighD dataset [53],
which was collected by a 4K resolution camera mounted
on a drone flying over a roadway. The data extraction and
kinematic model for the car-following behavior were based
on FollowNet [46]. To ensure the objectivity of the Statistical
Evaluation module, 15% data was reserved as a test set.
Additionally, to comprehensively assess the impact of
various user commands, we followed the approach outlined
in [54] and categorized user commands into three levels
based on their directness, as detailed in TABLE I. This
classification enables a more precise analysis of how different
user commands influence the customization of driving styles.
We adopted GPT-4o-2024-08-062 as the base model and
the temperature was set to 0.3 for more deterministic text
generation. We set k = 3 in selecting relevant styles and
n = 2 in Statistical Evaluation.
B. Customizing Driving Style
First, we evaluated whether the driving styles generated
by Words2Wheels align with the specified user commands.
Prior to testing, we populated the Driving Style Database
with 8 initial styles. Some of these were data-driven reward
functions, derived using the clustering plus IRL approach
outlined in [26], while others were human-designed reward
functions based on the methodologies from [42], [47], [48].
For generating Style Policy from Style Reward, we employed
Proximal Policy Optimization [55], a commonly used RL
algorithm, for training. Since RL training can be unstable
at times, we ran the training 5 times using different seeds,
selecting the Style Policy with the highest reward.
We began by testing three specific user commands: “Drive
aggressively / normally / conservatively.” To ensure the
2https://platform.openai.com/docs/models

Fig. 5.
Comparison of customized policies over style-aware metrics.
robustness of the results, we ran each command 5 times
and averaged the outcomes, as shown in Fig. 5. In the
repeated experiments, sometimes the newly generated style is
selected as the best suited, and sometimes the existing style
is. To make the data easier to compare, we normalized it
using the 10th and 90th percentiles of the natural driving
behavior from the test set. The aggressive style showed
higher speeds and greater acceleration, while the conservative
style maintained a larger gap and relative speed (leading
vehicle minus following vehicle), which aligned well with
expectations. However, the aggressive style had a larger time
headway, and the normal style showed higher jerk, possibly
because the LLM did not prioritize these metrics. Overall,
Words2Wheels demonstrated a strong ability to adapt to
different driving styles based on user commands.
C. Generation Capability
In this experiment, we tested Words2Wheels’ ability to
generate driving styles by only providing styles that did
not match the user commands. For example, when the user
command indicated an aggressive driving style, we only
provided conservative and normal styles, and vice versa. We
limited the initial styles to 4 for better demonstration.
Results from 5 repeated runs were averaged and are shown
in Fig. 6. When the input was “I’m going to be late for
the train,” the generated style exhibited higher speed, accel-
eration, and jerk. In contrast, when the input was “Safety
first. I have plenty of time,” the generated style showed
greater spacing, time headway, and relative speed. These
results demonstrate that Words2Wheels can generate driving
styles that align with user commands rather than simply
selecting from existing styles. This capability is crucial for
generalizing to new user commands and driving scenarios.
D. Human-in-the-Loop Comparisons
According to research on Reinforcement Learning with
Human Feedback [56], human preferences tend to be more
consistent and reliable than direct quantification, particularly
in scientific experiments. To leverage this, we developed a
visualization tool to compare human judgments on driving
Fig. 6.
Evaluation of generated policies when no aligned styles provided.
style consistency, as illustrated in Fig. 7. This tool displays
clips of car-following behavior from two different models in
the same real-world scenario, allowing users to intuitively
select which clip better aligns with the user command or
if both seem similar. To eliminate bias, the models are
anonymized as A and B.
Fig. 7.
User Interface of the tool for comparing driving style alignment.
Referring to prior research [22], [26], we benchmarked
Words2Wheels against Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) [57],
a widely recognized car-following model. A detailed intro-
duction to IDM and its calibration can be found in [43].
We recruited 10 volunteers with valid driving license,
presenting each with 5 user commands and testing 20 events
per command, resulting in a total of 1,000 tested events.
The results, summarized in TABLE II, show that in 72%
events, participants judged the driving style generated by
Words2Wheels to be a better match to the user command
than IDM. In 18.8% events, both models were considered
equally effective, while IDM was preferred in only 9.2%

TABLE II
HUMAN PREFERENCES ON DRIVING STYLE ALIGNMENT
Command
Prefer
Ours
Prefer
IDM
Even
Tested
events
I’m going to be late for the date.
72%
12.5%
15.5%
200
I am getting car sick and
prefer a smooth ride.
64%
10.5%
25.5%
200
Drive as fast as you can.
72.5%
8.5%
19%
200
Safety first. I have plenty of time.
79.5%
3.5%
17%
200
The cars behind us are honking,
might be urging us.
72%
11%
17%
200
Total
72%
9.2%
18.8%
1000
TABLE III
CASE STUDIES ACROSS ALL COMMAND LEVELS
Command
Level
Rational
Priorities
Rational
Metrics
Rational
Retrieval
Rational
Generation
Case
Count
Level I
100%
100%
100%
90%
10
Level II
90%
90%
90%
80%
10
Level III
100%
95%
90%
85%
20
Total
97.5%
95%
92.5%
85%
40
cases. These findings highlight the capability and effective-
ness of Words2Wheels in adapting to user commands.
E. Generalization Capability
To assess whether Words2Wheels can handle various user
commands, we designed and tested 40 commands3, each
reflecting a specific driving style, and closely evaluated the
LLM’s responses for each one. These commands span across
three levels of directness. First, we examined whether the
LLM correctly interpreted the key factors prioritized by
the user, such as efficiency or safety. Then, we verified
whether the key metrics selected by the LLM through the
Statistical Evaluation module were logically sound. Next, we
evaluated the objectivity of the k Style Rewards retrieved
from the Driving Style Database. Finally, we reviewed the
reasonableness of the generated reward functions.
The statistical results of these case studies are presented
in TABLE III. Overall, Words2Wheels performed well in
terms of analysis, decision-making, and generation for the
vast majority of cases. The system’s handling of Level I
commands was slightly more accurate than for Level II and
III commands, closely aligning with human expectations. In
a few isolated cases, the LLM’s interpretation and processing
were off, such as in Case 19, where the LLM misinterpreted
the user command “You are allowing a large gap with
the vehicle in front,” and in Case 26, where the LLM
intentionally selected the Style Reward with the highest jerk
value as a counterexample. Another recurring issue was that
when acceleration and jerk values were negative, the LLM’s
understanding conflicted with human intuition. Despite these
3Experimental records available at https://bit.ly/4giYhB7
TABLE IV
TESTING FUZZY MEMORY FUNCTION WITH SIMILAR COMMANDS
Memory
Similar Command (if successfully recall)
I’m going to be
late for {the train}.
the plane (yes), the party (yes),
the game (yes), work (yes),
picking up my son from school (yes)
{It’s getting dark} and
visibility has decreased.
It’s raining (yes), It’s a hazy day (yes),
It’s foggy outside (yes), It’s snowing (no),
The street lights are broken (yes)
I am {dizzy} and
prefer a smooth ride.
getting car sick (yes), watching movie (yes),
having breakfast (yes), not in a hurry (yes),
having some food (yes)
occasional misinterpretations, the case studies still demon-
strated the strong overall capabilities of Words2Wheels.
F. Fuzzy Memory
To
assess
the
fuzzy
memory
functionality
of
Words2Wheels, we conducted 3 experimental sets. In
each set, we input a predefined memory into the Driving
Style Database and then tested the system with 5 similar
inputs to see if it could recall the corresponding memory.
For instance, we entered the phrase “I’m going to be late
for the train” as a historical command linked to a specific
driving style in the database. We then tested whether the
system could directly match this style when given similar
inputs, such as “I’m going to be late for the plane.”
The results, shown in TABLE IV, summarize the system’s
ability to recall associated driving styles. With the exception
of one case involving “It’s snowing and visibility has de-
creased”, all other test cases were successfully recalled. The
system demonstrated a strong ability to recognize and match
fuzzy inputs to existing memories. This capability enhances
the adaptability of the driving models, enabling the system
to respond effectively to a broader range of natural language
instructions by recalling similar previous commands.
V. CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION
This paper presents Words2Wheels, a framework that cus-
tomizes driving policies based on natural language user com-
mands. By utilizing a Style-Customized Reward Function
and a Driving Style Database, the system effectively aligns
user preferences with driving behavior. Experiments showed
Words2Wheels’ ability to generate and adapt driving styles,
highlighting its potential for improving user experience in
autonomous vehicles through style customization.
Future work will focus on expanding the framework
to more complex driving scenarios beyond car-following,
refining the Statistical Evaluation module for finer tuning,
and incorporating a Feedback and Reflection module [40]
to improve reward functions and enhance system reliability.
These developments aim to further enhance Words2Wheels’
adaptability and precision in style-aware driving.
