Title: Atmospheric pressure continuous flow methane oxidation to methanol and acetic acid using H 2 O 2 over Au-Fe catalyst
Authors: Anuradha V Jagtap A †$ (CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory); Pawan Kumar A †$ (CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory); Sharad Gupta (CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory); N Abharana (Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC)); S N Jha (Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC)); D Bhattacharyya (Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC)); T G Ajithkumar (CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory); C P Vinod (CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory)

Abstract:
An enormous value proposition exists when molecules like acetic acid and methanol are derived from natural gas. With abundant worldwide resources, methane to methanol (M2M) by partial oxidation or acetic acid through Cinsertion is considered one of the catalysis's most enterprising chemical transformations. In this work, significant catalytic challenges successfully tackled are the continuous partial oxidation of methane to methanol and acetic acid at atmospheric pressure. In continuous flow and at atmospheric pressure, a modified silica-supported bimetallic (AuFeHS) catalyzed methane to methanol using H2O2 with an impressive yield of 224 mmol/gFe+Au. Co-feeding CO in the stream produces acetic acid, demonstrating a selectivity switch from methanol with an overall yield of 92 mmol/gFe+Au.

Methane is one of the major constituents of natural gas, and its presence in waste landfills and manure feedstocks adds to the potential list of chemicals contributing to global warming 1 . Methane has a high calorific value and can be directly used as fuel, but its storage and transportation are not practical as it needs to be compressed to 10-100 atm for commercial utility. Alternatively, CH4 is converted into chemicals using an indirect route involving synthesis gas (CO+H2) 2 . Methane is envisaged to have tremendous potential to be a raw material that can be converted into various high-value chemicals. One of the biggest obstacles in this direction is the activation of non-polar methane with a central carbon atom surrounded by four hydrogen atoms forming a regular tetrahedron, thereby requiring harsh reaction conditions 3 . A more significant challenge is the partial oxidation of methane (POM) to methanol or any other useful platform molecules, as thermodynamics suggests that an activated C-H bond is so reactive that it readily undergoes complete oxidation to CO2. Direct conversion of methane to value-added liquid fuels and chemicals such as methanol, olefins, hydrogen, and aromatics has thus become an important research topic attracting interest from industry and academia 4, 5 . Indeed, direct partial oxidation of methane to methanol is considered a holy grail problem in catalysis and is a dream reaction that still eludes the catalysis community [5] [6] [7] [8] . In general, molecular oxygen and H2O2, the two green oxidants, are targeted because of their better commercialization scope, and if successful, catalytic technologies can be developed through these routes. While molecular oxygen is the ideal solution for this problem, the yields reported so far for methanol, and other oxygenates are so poor that any commercialization scope is far in sight. The new and cheaper technologies in the future for producing H2O2 make any catalytically oxidative pathway this molecule might offer a boon or future 9 .
The development of active material for this conversion in high-pressure batch process has been explored on vari-ous supported metal sites and metal alloys [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] . Wang and coworkers reported the conversion of methane over oxo dicopper anchored on carbon nitride with a methanol production of 129.7 mmol gCu -1 h -110 . Hutchings and coworkers reported the production of 7.02 µmol of oxygenates in 30 min of using AuPdCu supported on titania 14 . Most of the reports suffer from low product yield and high temperature and high-pressure reaction conditions, limiting the use of the catalyst at the commercial level.
Early reports on single site catalysts for methane partial oxidation have interested researchers because the highly dispersed metal particles on various supports significantly modify their chemical and electronic properties in the materials [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] [20] [21] [22] [23] [24] [25] . Xinhe Bao and coworkers explored the various transition metal supported on graphene, confirming that the graphene-confined iron single-atom catalyst can activate the methane at room temperature and 20 bar pressure. In this report the FeN4/GN-2.7 catalyst was able to catalyze methane partial oxidation, resulting in the production of approximately 114 µmol of C1 oxygenates in 10h 18 . Song and coworkers produced synergistic catalysts with single chromium atoms supported on TiO2 nanoparticles for direct methane oxidation to C1 oxygenated products, yielding 43.9 µmol 17 . In another report, ZSM-5supported single Cu atoms were shown to be active and selective for methane partial oxidation with yield for C1 oxygenates of 4800 μmol⋅gcat -1 within 30 min 22 . The literature suggests that most catalysts employed for methane activation suffer from low methanol selectivity, harsh reaction conditions, and material stability.
There are only limited reports for the POM to methanol in a continuous flow reactor [26] [27] [28] [29] [30] with most reports on using molecular oxygen as the oxidant with frugal conversion to methanol. For example, Karthik et. al. reports the production of 1.81 µmolh -1 gcat -1 of methanol using O2 as an oxidant at 210 o C 26 . Hutchings and co-workers recently reported POM reaction in a high-pressure continuous process using H2O2 as an oxidant 27 . The yield obtained was 0.081 molProduct kgcatalyst -1 h -1 at 20 bar pressure. Considering the importance of this reaction, it is highly desirable to construct a catalyst material that can activate methane at mild conditions and selectively produce desired oxygentaes. In this report, we disclose an Au-Fe catalyst supported over hydrophobic silica to partially oxidize methane to methanol using H2O2 (15% w/v) as an oxidant both in batch (20 bar) and continuous process (atmospheric pressure) with high selectivity. We also show that co-feeding CO with methane produces acetic acid in excellent yield. The overall conversion achieved through the atmospheric pressure continuous process in the present work is the best reported, surpassing the high-pressure batch process for methanol and acetic acid.
Results and Discussions A modified deposition precipitation (DP) method was used to disperse atomic clusters of Fe onto hydrophobic silica (HS) support 31 . The best-performing catalyst (0.2Au0,5FeHS, further written as AuFeHS) had an optimum Fe concentration of 0.46 wt % and Au concentration of 0.23 wt %, confirmed by the Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP-OES). The importance of hydrophobic support in oxidation reactions involving H2O2 is to help peroxide close to the active sites of Au and Fe where incoming methane can react with peroxide efficiently [32] [33] [34] . Further, it is known that the active sites get blocked in the hydrophilic conditions because of the presence of moisture and it is also known that Au particle size increases in the aqueous conditions, which further lowers the activity of the catalyst [35] [36] [37] . A hydrophobic environment also facilitates easy desorption of the methanol from the surface, preventing over-oxidation. 38, 39 The hydrophobicity of silica was confirmed by contact angle analysis with an observed angle of 118 (Fig. S1-2 ). The C-H vibration from silica confirmed the hydrophobic functionalization from HS (Fig. S3 ). The absence of characteristic reflections of Au and Fe from the powder XRD confirms a fine dispersion of metals over the AuFeHS catalyst (Fig. S4 ). This observation was expected with a low loading of the metals on the silica support. FeHS images obtained from HRTEM did not show any contrast difference characteristic of Fe particles (Fig. 1a ). Atomic dispersion of Fe over the silica surface with extremely low loading could be the reason for this. However, small nanoparticles of Au (1.3-3.0 nm) were observed in the case of AuFeHS (Fig. 1b and 1c ). Such nanoparticle formation of Au is expected even at small loadings because of the higher surface energy of gold, which tends to stabilize in a larger size 40, 41 . The elemental mapping further shows that the Au nanoparticles are finely dispersed over FeHS, resulting in a strongly interfaced AuFeHS catalyst (Fig. 1d , Fig. S5-7 ). The particle size distribution for Au on FeHS was in range of 1.4-2.8 nm (Fig. 1e ). A specific surface area of 392 m 2 /g was observed for the AuFeHS catalyst using the present synthesis method (Fig. S8 and Table S1 ).
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy confirmed the oxidation state of the elements, which also gave insights into the perturbed electronic environment surrounding Fe species. C 1s spectrum recorded from both samples showed the main peak at ~285 eV corresponding to C-C and C-H fragments from the modified silica support (Fig. S9 ). Since the electron flood gun was used during the data acquisition, the charge correction was not required, and the BE values were reported as recorded. In Fig. 2a , Fe 2p spectra of FeHS, the presence of a peak at 710.3 eV confirms the presence of Fe 3+ species, while the peak around 712.5 eV corresponds to FeOOH species on the catalyst surface 42 . The Fe 2p spectra of AuFeHS showed the binding energy at 710.6 eV corresponding to Fe 3+ species (Fig. 2a )) and lower binding energy (709.5 eV) confirms the presence of low valent Fe 3-δ+ species, which is identified as an important Fe site in methane activation 43, 44 . The low valent Fe sites are also reported to be the sites for hydrogen peroxide activation by providing the OH moiety to the activated methane molecule for the formation of CH3OH 45, 46 . Over the FeHS catalyst, the low valent Fe 3-δ+ at 709.5 eV was absent and reflected in their poor catalysis (Fig. 2a ). Au 4f XPS spectra of AuFeHS (Fig. 2b ) showed two peaks centered at 83.9 eV (Au 4f 7/2) and 87.6eV (Au 4f5/2) with the spinorbit splitting difference of 3.7 eV corresponding to the binding energy of elemental gold Au0. A higher binding energy peak ~ 85 eV (4f 7/2) establishing cationic (Au δ+ ) species shows a possible charge donation and stabilization of the Fe 3-δ+ species. Based on relative peak areas, their respective atomic percentages were estimated as 85% for Au 0 , and 15 % for Au δ+ , peaks. No considerable change was observed in the case of the Au (fresh and spent) catalyst. The cationic Au species was absent in the case of the AuHS catalyst (Fig. S10 ). Apart from Au and Fe, Na was also present in the catalyst and the details given in the later discussion.
Fig. 2c shows the normalized XANES spectra measured at Fe K-edge along with Fe standards. No Fe-Fe interaction was observed in the samples, revealing the single atomic nature of Fe species in the catalysts. The Fe absorption edge of the FeHS sample coincides with that of the Fe2O3 standard, manifesting Fe is present in the +3 oxidation state in the sample, while the low valent species of iron was observed in the AuFeHS catalyst. For the AuFeHS sample, by linear combination fitting (LCF), we could see that it has a 72% contribution of Fe3O4 and 28% FeO (Fig. S11) and (Fig. S12 ) shows the full EXAFS (vs.) spectra of Au-Fe catalyst samples for Fe edge and Au edge respectively. Fig. S13 shows the normalized XANES spectra measured at Au L3-edge and that of Au foil. The Au absorption edge of most samples coincides with that of Au foil, showing that Au is in an elemental state in all the samples. However, AuFeHS have an L3 edge slightly higher than the Au metal edge possible due to some charge transfer, which is also evident as Au in cationic form as inferred from XPS. From the radial distribution functions of all samples at Fe Kedge, as shown in (Fig. 2d ), the first peak appears at 1.5Å, which is at an appreciably lower value compared to that of Fe foil. This shows that Fe is not in the elemental Fe state in the sample, as also demonstrated by XANES data discussed above (also shown in Fig. 2c ). The peak at ~1.5Å corresponds to two neighbouring O shells with C.N. of 3 at 1.94 Å and 2.11Å. The best fit versus R plots (fitting range = 0-4 Å) of all the samples are shown in Fig. 2d , and the best-fit values are shown in Table S2 .
The radial distribution functions or versus R plots of all the samples at Au L3-edge are shown in Fig. S14 . Contrary to the Fe edge data, here the first major peak lies above 2Å and close to that of Au foil data showing that the nearest neighbor of Au in these samples are Au itself and all samples are mostly in elemental form. However, the 1st peak of AuFeHS is marginally shifted to lower R and may be due to some charge transfer, as explained by XANES and XPS.
The presence of isolated metal atoms on the surface is probed through in-situ IR spectroscopy (Fig. S15 ) 47, 48 . The support shows no or little interaction with the CO molecules. The CO adsorption on Au metal atoms shows different signals for various oxidation states. There were two detectable signals in the case of Au and Fe-loaded silica near 2105, and 2175 cm -1 . The signal centered at 2105 cm - 1 is assigned to terminally adsorbed Au 0 -CO, whereas the signal at 2175 cm -1 is assigned to Au δ+ -CO 49, 50 .
Catalytic activity and selectivity of Au-Fe catalysts for methane oxidation
The initial screening of all the catalysts for the partial oxidation of methane (POM) was carried out in a batch reactor at 10 bar methane pressure. The catalytic activity of hydrophobic silica (HS), monometallic Fe-HS, Au-HS, and bimetallic Au-Fe hydrophobic silica-supported catalysts was investigated. According to the previous reports, the Fe loading of less than 1 wt % is found to be optimum for efficient methane activation, so we fixed the amount of Fe as 0.5 wt % in the catalyst and varied the Au loading 51, 52 . The screening of bimetallic metal loadings was carried out and the optimum was found to be 0.5 wt % Fe and 0.2 % of Au S3 ). No product was detected for the reaction over the support (HS) (Fig. S16 ). The Fe-HS catalyst gave 285 mmol/gFe with a methanol selectivity of 82% from the catalyst. Under a similar reaction condition, Au-Fe HS catalyst gave a remarkable yield reaching 1666 mmol/gFe+Au with a selectivity of 95%, one of the highest selectivity reported yet 10, 45 . Oxo di copper anchored on carbon nitride catalyst produced methyl oxygenates (129.7 mmol gCu -1 h -1 ) at 0 with a selectivity of 4% for methanol 10 . The other component of the catalyst, AuHS was also tested, and the yield was only 47.6 mmol/gAu of methanol, showing the synergistic effects. CO2 was observed as a side product with a selectivity of around 5%, showing 100 % selectivity for the liquid oxygenate. Optimized conditions for the efficient met anol formation ere 0 temperature and 10 ar pressure of methane (Fig. 3a and 3b ). The role of the hydrophobic support can be differentiated through the activity comparison of the supports as Au and Fe supported on SBA-15 gave only 111 mmol/gFe+Au methanol under optimized conditions (Fig. 3c ) (detailed comparison in Table S4 ). A comparison of the catalytic activity data from the Au-Fe catalyst with the best reports in the literature shows the impressive performance of this catalyst. The better yields than the presented data are from Au-Pd colloidal particles [6] and on Cu2@C3N4 [9] supported catalysts but suffer from poor (initial) selectivity and high-pressure conditions than that reported in this work (Table S6 ). The control experiments done (Table S4 , entries 1,2 and 3) showed that no product was detected without methane flow, oxidant and catalyst.
Stephanolpolous and co-workers showed an elegant pathway for producing acetic acid during the partial oxidation of methane by introducing CO as a co-reactant 25 . Zhong and co-workers recently reported the production of 3323 µmol/gcat of total oxygenate products, with 60% acetic acid selectivity, using the CO in reactant feed 4 .
Taking a cue from these reports, we carried out the methane partial oxidation in the presence of CO, and the results are shown in Fig. 3d . As intuited, there was a selectivity switch and acetic acid was formed as the main product with a yield of 3403 µmol/gcat within 1h of the reaction at 50 o C in the batch process with a total gas pressure of 20 bar (15 bar CH4:5 bar CO). Methanol was observed as the only other liquid oxygenate product formed with a yield of 166 µmol/gcat. An increment in the gaseous products (CO2) was observed with an increase in the reaction time and temperature (Fig. 3d ). In the case of the AuFeHS catalyst, the CO2 selectivity was 10 % when CO was added to the feed (Fig. 3d ) at 50  C, while 5-6 % when methane was only in the reactant feed under standardized conditions (Fig. 3b ). Gas chromatography (GC) and NMR confirmed product formation, and the yield was quantified by GC using standard calibrations. A representative NMR spectrum from the reaction mixture is attached in supplementary Information (Fig. S17 ), where the peaks corresponding to Following the batch process, where excellent yield and selectivity was demonstrated for methanol and acetic during the partial oxidation of methane, we extended the POM reaction in a continuous reactor. The scheme showing the partial oxidation reaction carried out in a fixed-bed reactor in a continuous flow process at atmospheric pressure, is shown Scheme 1. The continuous flow process at atmospheric pressure for up to 7 h showed steady methanol production (Fig. 4a ). The product yield reached a maximum at 4 h (157 µmol) under the optimized conditions. In the case of HS catalyst, no product was observed, while methanol was observed as the main product when metal was deposited over HS. FeHS catalyst produced 24.2 mmol/gFe of methanol while an outstanding product yield of 224 mmol/gFe+Au was reported in the case of AuFeHS. For AuHS catalyst, 12 mmol/gAu was the productivity within 4 h of the reaction (Fig. 4b ). The remarkable methanol yield of 422 µmolh -1 gcat -1 or 0.42 molmethanol kgcatalyst -1 h -1 (for 4h) from the AuFeHS catalyst is better than the reported value of 1.81 µmolh -1 gcat -1 of methanol using O2 as an oxidant at 210 o C 26 and 0.081 molProduct kgcatalyst -1 h -1 under 20 bar pressure using H2O2 as an oxidant 27 . It is also exemplary because of benign conditions (atmospheric pressure) used to carry out the POM to methanol. The introduction of CO to the reactant feed results in acetic acid formation as the main product, with methanol and CO2 as side products. 648 µmol/gcat of acetic acid formed within 4 h of the reaction (Table S5 , entry 2). The temperature optimization confirms that 80 C is the best condition for the effective conversion of methane at atmospheric pressure (Table S5 ).
The background reaction from organic groups from the catalyst, which impart hydrophobicity for the catalyst, was ruled out by carrying out the isotope (CD4) labelling experiments on the AuFeHS catalyst. The peak at 3.3 ppm showed multiplet in 1 H NMR spectra, confirming that the methyl group in the alcohol originated from CD4 rather than any other ligands from the support (Fig. S18 ). The 2 H and 13 C NMR spectra further confirmed the presence of labelled methanol (Fig. S19 ). Using nitrogen gas as feed instead of methane resulted in no products supporting the above experiment (Table S5 , Entry 3). Finally, a comparison with the recent literature values for the partial oxidation of methane to methanol using H2O2 as an oxidant is given (Table S6 ). Clearly, the AuFeHS catalyst catalyzed partial oxidation of methane to methanol or acetic acid with exception yields at previously thought unfavourable conditions.
The unprecedented activity of the AuFeHS catalyst for the highly selective partial oxidation of methane to methanol and acetic acid under benign conditions could be largely understood based on the synergy between the Fe and Au, which are individually known to catalyze this reaction with H2O2 at high-pressure conditions. The synergistic effects between Au and Fe is also evident in the case of SBA-15 as the production of methanol (0.78 mmol/gcat) was observed in the case of AuFe deposited over SBA-15 using the same synthesis method (Table S4 , entry 9). Fe-SBA-15 and Au-SBA-15 was able to produce only 0.30 mmol/gcat and 0.15 mmol/gcat of methanol, respectively (Table S4 , entry 7 & 8). Thus, the hydrophobicity of the silica and the synergistic effect are key for enhanced activity for POM reaction. One of the challenges in designing low-pressure, low-temperature methane activation catalysts is stabilizing active species, which are easily poisoned by reacting oxidants like O2, H2O2, or H2O 53 . In our case, the low valent Fe δ+, which can simultaneously activate both CH4 and H2O2, is generated and stabilized by Au. The intimate interaction between the Fe and Au in the catalyst was evident from STEM line analysis (Fig. S20 ). Solid state NMR revealed the atomic environment of the disordered structure of hydrophobic silica. For the HS, 29 Si (Fig. 5a ) confirmed the presence of Q 2 , Q 3 , Q 4 , and T 2 , T 3 states 54, 55 . When Fe was deposited using NaOH, Na atoms were incorporated in the silica matrix by making the Si-O-Na framework, confirmed by the decrement in the Q 3 and Q 2 states (Fig. 5b ). A further decrease in Q 3 and Q 2 states was seen after the NaOH-assisted Au deposition (Fig. 5c ). The Na 1s XPS spectrum confirmed the interaction of Si-O-Na (Fig. 5d ) environment 56, 57 . In the 23 Na NMR spectrum, 7.32 ppm and -1.59 ppm peaks confirmed the presence of Si-O-Na framework 58 (Fig. S21-S22 ). XPS and EDAX analysis supported the data. The pyridine-adsorbed FT-IR spectrum of the AuFeHS catalyst exhibits characteristic bands in the region 1400-1500 cm -1 (Fig. S23 ). The band at 1449 cm -1 are assigned to Lewis acid sites bonded to pyridine 59, 60 . The band at ~1640 cm -1 is observed due to the -OH deformation vibrations and the physisorbed water molecules onto the surface of the materials 61 . It should be noted that the amount of physisorbed water over the hydrophobic catalyst was much less compared to SBA-15 (Fig. S3 ). The acidic sites on the bimetallic catalysts are crucial here and are well known for the C-H sigma complex for methane activation 62 and help in the regeneration of Fe δ+ sites 63 . The activated C-H sigma complex gets converted to CH3 radical on the low valent Fe 3-δ+ sites. Once the CH3 and OH radicals are formed, methanol formation, facile CO insertion, and acetic acid generation become easy. It is imperative to conclude that Au nanoparticles, being excellent CO oxidation catalysts, provide low-energy activation sites for the adsorption of CO 64 . Even though we have optimized the catalysts based on bimetallic compositions, the role of Na and Lewis acid sites in the overall POM reaction is worth exploring and is beyond the scope of this study. Conclusions: In summary, we have reported AuFeHS, a bimetallic catalyst supported on modified sodium containing silica (HS) for the continuous flow oxidation of methane to value-added products at ambient pressure and mild temperatures using H2O2 as an oxidant. The highly selective conversion of methane to methanol (>95%) with an yield of 1666 mmol/g(Au+Fe) within 30 min in batch process signs the presence of highly active sites in the material and the production of methanol in continuous flow process with a yield of 224 mmol/g(Fe+Au) opens the doors for the activation of methane at atmospheric conditions. While the synergistic effect between Au and Fe metals with sufficient acidic sites over silica support catalyzes the production of a high amount of methanol and acetic acid under benign conditions, care should be taken to prepare the support which helps to keep the peroxide radical close to the active metal sites. We believe that tuning active Fe species through a bimetallic modulation is a clever way to achieve catalytic conversion of lower alkanes to oxygenates, opening the scope for the commercialization of M2O (Methane to Oxygenates) technologies.

## ASSOCIATED CONTENT
Supporting Information. Synthesis of HS, FeHS and AuFeHS, materials characterization methods, procedure and optimizations of the catalytic reactions, product calculation and XAS calculations, Activity data figures and tables. Supporting Information should be included, ending with "T is material is availa le free of c arge via t e Internet at http://pubs.acs.org."
https://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-h00ht ORCID: https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9857-4907 Content not peer-reviewed by ChemRxiv. License: CC BY-NC-ND 4.0