Title: Spontaneous crystal fluctuation in hydrocarbon polymer-coated monolayer MoS 2 , MoSe 2 , WS 2 , and WSe 2 with strong photoluminescence enhancement
Authors: Takahiro Nakahara (Osaka Metropolitan University); Takashi Kobayashi (Chuo University); Tetsuji Dohi (Chuo University); Takeshi Yoshimura (Osaka Metropolitan University); Norifumi Fujimura (Osaka Metropolitan University); Daisuke Kiriya (Osaka Metropolitan University)

Abstract:
A large number of experimental results have been published on the improvement of optical properties in monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) by probing with photoluminescence (PL) intensity. Remarkable improvement in PL intensity in sulfur-based compounds, such as MoS 2 and WS 2 , has almost been established by chemical treatment methods, such as p-type dopants and superacids; in contrast, selenium-based compounds of MoSe 2 , especially WSe 2 , have a very limited strategy. One potential strategy for improving PL intensity in all compounds would be to remove the substrate effect by mechanical floating of the monolayers from the underneath substrate material. However, floating the monolayer is difficult; it is possible if the monolayer does transfer to the trenches of substrates, and a postpreparation method has not been established. In this paper, we developed a universal postpreparation method for removing the substrate effect by a spontaneous fluctuation of monolayer TMDCs via coating with a simple hydrocarbon, paraffin. Because of the large thermal coefficient of paraffin, the stain is effectively applied to the TMDCs in the coating process. The paraffin-coated monolayer TMDCs show spontaneous fluctuation; and in an extreme case, the fluctuation forms the shape of a bundle. During the fluctuation and deformation, the substrate effect was removed; as a result, PL intensity improved remarkably in both sulfur-and selenium-based compounds of MoS 2 , WS 2 , MoSe 2 , and WSe 2 . This work suggests a universal strategy for improving the optical property of monolayer TMDCs by removing the substrate effect. It also extends the design of applying TMDCs as optoelectronics material due to the transparency, flexibility, and biocompatibility of the paraffin.

Transition metal dichalcogenides, denoted as MX 2 (M = Mo, W and X = S, Se), are attracting attention due to their thin crystal structure with a layer-thickness of only three atoms with excellent mechanical robustness. [1] [2] [3] [4] [5] [6] Monolayer TMDCs exhibit a direct band gap at the K and Kʹ points in the Brillouin zone; therefore, it is expected to have applications in optical transistors, light-emitting diodes, and solar cells, among others. 2, [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] However, a drawback of the optical behavior in monolayer TMDCs is their poor optical property, such as poor photoluminescence (PL) intensity, causing factors such as over-carrier concentrations, [16] [17] [18] [19] strains, [20] [21] [22] and defects in the crystalline lattice. [23] [24] [25] [26] [27] In the case of the n-type materials of MoS 2 and WS 2 , p-type doping successfully enhances PL intensity with chemicals such as p-dopants of 2,3,5,6-tetrafluoro-7,7,8,8-tetracyanoquinodimethane (F4TCNQ) 19, 28 and tetrafluoro-1,4benzoquinone 29 . The p-dopant enhances exciton (electron-hole pair) dominant emission by decreasing the probability of generating trion (two electrons and hole pair) in TMDCs. 18, 19, 30 Another reported chemical treatment method for MoS 2 and WS 2 is the treatment of a superacid molecule, bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide (TFSI), which can produce PL enhancement of hundreds of times. [31] [32] [33] [34] However, the above methods are not effective for the selenium-based TMDCs of MoSe 2 and WSe 2 . 31 In terms of applying for selenium-based compounds, oleic acid treatments on MoSe 2 succeeded in enhancing PL intensity. 26 In addition, hydrohalic acid treatment on MoSe 2 showed PL enhancement. 27 Defect repairing in the crystalline lattice has been suggested for the enhancement of PL intensity in the case of MoSe 2 . The process has succeeded in MoSe 2 but has not been reported for application in WSe 2 , to the best of our knowledge. In the case of WSe 2 , methods of enhancing PL intensity are different; the reported method separates a monolayer WSe 2 from substrates by floating or inserting ions, which removes the substrate effect. [35] [36] [37] As shown above, there are different strategies for improving the optical property of different TMDCs, and no universal strategy has been found for improving the optical behavior of a large variety of two-dimensional semiconductor materials.
In this study, we developed a method that enhances PL intensity in the sulfur-based TMDCs of MoS 2 and WS 2 that is also applicable for selenium-based TMDCs of MoSe 2 and WSe 2 through coating with a simple hydrocarbon, paraffin. The factor of PL enhancement is remarkable: MoS 2 , WS 2 , WSe 2 , and MoSe 2 show factors of enhancement of 215-, 55-, 9-, and 50-fold from the as-exfoliated flakes, respectively. The paraffin coating was revealed to induce gradual spontaneous fluctuation and eventual desorption of the monolayer from the substrates.
The deformation to a shrunk bundled structure is the result of the desorption if the monolayer is not surrounded by bulk flakes, which is due to stress at the interface with paraffin. The spontaneous fluctuation and desorption remove the substrate effect, which is the key factor in enhancing PL intensity in the monolayers. The method is due to applying the strain by the large thermal expansion coefficient in paraffin; therefore, the underlining science is applicable to other 2D layered materials. Moreover, paraffin is insulative, flexible, and transparent, making it suitable for packaging flexible light-emitting displays and solar cells.
The paraffin used in this research has a melting point of 42-45 °C. For paraffin coating, the paraffin was melted on a hot plate at 80 °C in advance and dropped onto a sample placed on a spin coater (Fig. 1a ). To keep the paraffin in a melted state when applying spin coating, a heat blower (hair dryer) was applied because otherwise, the paraffin would immediately solidify when cast on the sample. Figure 1b shows PL spectra for a monolayer WS 2 , which showed PL enhancement of about 36 times through coating with paraffin. The normalized PL spectrum shows a decrease in the shoulder at the low-energy side, suggesting a decrease in the ratio of trion-derived PL signal. 38, 39 Optical microscopy images show that paraffin covers the entire monolayer WS 2 (Figs. 1c and 1d ), and PL mapping images confirm that the monolayer shows PL enhancement in the whole plane, but a partial specific area shows greater enhancement (Figs. 1c and 1d ). This PL enhancement was observed not only on the Si/SiO 2 substrate but also on the monolayer WS 2 on a quartz substrate (Fig. S1 ). The prepared film is transparent, enabling us to observe it under an optical microscope and measure PL spectra through the paraffin film. A thick film of paraffin achieved by simple casting, not by spin coating, resulted in a glassy appearance that was not transparent.
The paraffin coating process was applied to monolayer WS 2 , MoS 2 , WSe 2 , and MoSe 2 .
These monolayer TMDCs showed different band gaps and emission wavelengths, as shown in Figure 2a for the as-exfoliated (original) flakes. Figure 2b shows the factors of enhancement for each original monolayer flake (also Figs. S2a and S3 ). The factor of enhancement is dependent on each sample; for MoS 2 , a remarkable increase in PL by a factor of 215 was observed due to its low signal in the as-exfoliated state. This result suggests that paraffin film formation is widely applicable in both sulfur-and selenium-based TMDCs. These results differ from those obtained by various past methods of increasing PL intensity, such as the method using TFSI molecules, which is applicable only to sulfur-based TMDCs.
As shown in Figure S2b and MoSe 2 , respectively (Fig. S2b ). The decrease in the FWHM and the upshift of the peak suggest that the number of carriers in the monolayer TMDCs would decrease, and the PL spectra after paraffin coating is dominated by exciton-derived emission; this explanation is especially applicable for sulfur-based TMDCs. 2, 16, 19 Figures 3a to 3d are the optical microscope images for the as-exfoliated monolayer MoS 2 and the monolayer MoS 2 immediately after paraffin coating, after 2 hours at room temperature, and after a further 1 hour at room temperature, respectively. The monolayer MoS 2 deformed spontaneously with time, while the surrounding bulk flakes maintained their morphology. Figure 3e shows the PL spectra for the deformed sample in Figures 3a-c , identified by the white circles in each figure. Figure 3e shows the upshift of the PL peak during the deformation process, with remarkable PL enhancement.
One explanation for the above results in PL spectra is the deformation of the monolayer TMDCs, which would happen through penetration of the paraffin underneath each monolayer TMDC; the paraffin removes the substrate effect from the TMDCs, as shown in Figure 3f . The removal of the substrate effect would be a factor for PL enhancement in selenium-based TMDCs. [35] [36] [37] Raman spectra also indicate the state of TMDCs via the effect of paraffin coating.
Figure 4 shows the statistical information of Raman shifts of the Eʹ and Aʹ peak positions in 30 samples of monolayer MoS 2 before and after paraffin coating. The Eʹ peak (Fig. 4a ) represents vibrations in the in-plane direction, 20, 40, 41 which is sensitive to the strain in the layer; the Aʹ peak represents vibrations in the out-of-plane direction, which is specifically sensitive to the carrier concentration. 41, 42 The Eʹ peak shifted in the negative direction after paraffin coating by about -0.72 cm -1 on average (Table 2 ), indicating the strain inside the monolayer MoS 2 . While the Aʹ peak shifted in the positive direction by 1.03 cm -1 (Table 2 ) after paraffin coating, indicating that the monolayer MoS 2 tends to decrease the carrier concentration. 41, 42 These spectroscopic behaviors can also be explained by the penetration of paraffin between the monolayer MoS 2 and the substrate, thus reducing the substrate effect (electron doping from the substrate), and then decreasing the electron concentration in the monolayer TMDCs.
As the bulk flake maintains its morphology, a monolayer surrounded by bulk flakes would be prevented from bending and bundling. Figure 5 shows a monolayer surrounded by bulk flakes on the three sides, and we examine the monolayer state along with the paraffin coating. The PL mapping image revealed nonuniform high PL intensity around the center; the intensity is about 2.3 times greater in the center than at the rim. The PL peak position of the identical monolayer shows the distribution of the electronic states in the plane (Fig. 5b ). The peak position around the center shifts slightly (5-10 meV) lower in energy than the rim of the monolayer. In previous studies, a strain in two-dimensional semiconductor materials has been found to modulate the electronic state; the red shift in the PL peak position was observed under strain in the case of monolayer MoS 2 . 43 In another strain study, the wrinkling of flakes, which represents a nonuniform strain in a plane, results in increased PL intensity and a shift in the peak position to lower energy in the area of the wrinkles. 44 The area of the strain decreases the band gap, which is known as the funnel effect. 45, 46 As discussed in Figures 3a-d , when not surrounded by bulk flakes, monolayer MoS 2 desorbs from the substrate in the presence of the paraffin coating. In the case of monolayer MoS 2 surrounded by bulk flakes on three sides, large deformation is prevented, but the fluctuation of the monolayer in the plane may happen due to mechanical stress caused by the volume shrinkage of the paraffin throughout the process, which includes a change in temperature. The plausible PL enhancement mechanism (and the situation in Figure 5a ) is shown in Figures 5c and 5d . The mechanical stress inside the plane induces the fluctuation of monolayer TMDCs, then the partial area of the monolayer desorbs from the substrate and forms a wrinkle inside the plane. Figure S5 also shows a similar situation of the deformation of monolayer TMDCs. A monolayer MoS 2 shows a region with a folding edge associated with the paraffin coating process, and the folded edge indicates a situation involving bilayer MoS 2 . In the area of the folded bilayer, PL intensity shows remarkable enhancement, and the PL peak shifts to lower energy. Also, the Eʹ peak in the Raman spectra shifts to lower energy; these results also suggest that there is strain inside the monolayer MoS 2 resulting from paraffin coating. The area of the strain or wrinkle may show a drift of excitons, as found with the funnel effect in previous studies of wrinkles in monolayers. According to the results, PL enhancement in monolayer TMDCs is due to a combination of two effects: strain induced by the volume change caused by the high thermal expansion coefficient of the paraffin and the subsequent desorption of the monolayer TMDC flakes from the substrate. This phenomenon occurs spontaneously through the paraffin coating.
In conclusion, we demonstrated a strategy for remarkable PL enhancement in both sulfur-and selenium-based TMDCs, including monolayer MoS 2 , WS 2 , MoSe 2 , and WSe 2 , through coating with a simple hydrocarbon, paraffin. For example, in the case of MoS 2 , the factor of enhancement is over 200 times. The mechanism of PL enhancement is suggested to be a partial strain and deformation in the monolayer TMDCs. The PL mapping images indicate the nonuniformity of PL enhancement in the monolayer plane, which is dependent on the state of the fluctuation. In an extreme case, the deformation bends the monolayer into the shape of a bundle. This deformation happens gradually and spontaneously. PL and Raman spectra for the transient states in the deformation process of monolayers also suggest the extension of the monolayer plane by coating with paraffin. The substrate effect is eliminated by the deformation and desorption of monolayer TMDCs from the substrate, which would be caused by the penetration of paraffin at the interface between the substrate and monolayer TMDCs. This engineering method of hydrocarbon-coating is useful for straining thin 2D materials and is applicable for generating transparent and flexible optoelectronic devices in two-dimensional semiconductor materials.