Executive Summary
This paper proposes a method to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall states using Ramsey interferometry. The authors theoretically analyze how a two-pulse voltage modulation in a quantum point contact (QPC) can generate an interference pattern in the current noise, which oscillates with the dynamical phase of the quasiparticles. This pattern is shown to be sensitive to the Green's function, revealing the fractional charge and providing a way to differentiate between different quantum Hall states, such as the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states at filling factor 5/2. The study considers two QPC geometries: a constriction in a Hall bar allowing tunneling of fractional quasiparticles, and tunneling between two separated Hall droplets where electrons tunnel. The main finding is that the Ramsey interference pattern can reveal the charge and Green's function of the tunneling particles. The method is advantageous because it allows for a time-resolved measurement of the dynamical phase and Green’s function by scanning the time delay between the voltage pulses. The primary limitation is that the method does not detect exchange statistics, as it only involves a single QPC. The work suggests a new way to characterize topological states of matter.

Research Context
The fractional quantum Hall effect exhibits excitations with fractional charge and statistics, with edge states described by chiral Luttinger liquid theory. Prior work has used Ramsey interferometry to study the dynamics of mesoscopic electron systems, quasicondensates, spin ensembles, and Rydberg atoms. However, there is a need for methods to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall states. This work addresses this gap by applying Ramsey interferometry to quantum Hall edge states, offering a time-resolved method to measure the dynamical phase and Green's function of fractional quasiparticles. Prior techniques like Mach-Zehnder interferometry can probe charge fractionalization and statistics, but are limited by the difficulty of controlling bulk quasiparticles.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: Can Ramsey interferometry be used to probe the time-dependent dynamical phase and Green's function of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall states, and can it differentiate between different quantum Hall states? The hypothesis is that a Ramsey two-pulse voltage modulation applied to a QPC will generate an interference pattern in the current noise that oscillates with the dynamical phase of the fractional quasiparticles. This pattern will be sensitive to the Green's function of the quasiparticles, allowing for the determination of their fractional charge and potentially distinguishing between different topological states, such as the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states at filling factor 5/2. The alternative hypothesis is that the interference pattern will not be sensitive to the Green's function or will not be able to differentiate between different quantum Hall states. This work differs from prior studies by applying Ramsey interferometry to quantum Hall edge states to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles, providing a time-resolved measurement method.

Methodological Details
The study is theoretical, involving the application of Ramsey interferometry to quantum Hall edge states. The model considers a quantum Hall bar geometry with a QPC, which induces tunneling between counter-propagating edge states. The tunneling is described by a Hamiltonian (Equation 5) that includes a dynamical phase, dependent on the voltage drop across the QPC and the charge of the tunneling particle. The current noise, defined as the Fourier transform of the current-current correlation function (Equation 10), is analyzed under a time-dependent voltage modulation. The analysis uses the Keldysh formalism, suitable for non-equilibrium systems. The Ramsey voltage modulation consists of two short pulses separated by a delay time, t0, on top of a constant voltage (Equation 16). The Green's functions of the tunneling particles are used to calculate the current noise. The study considers Laughlin states with filling factor ν = 1/(2n+1), and also examines the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall case. The analysis involves the use of bosonic chiral fields and the corresponding Green's functions (Equation 22). The study also considers momentum-resolved tunneling, where the tunnel junction is long compared to the Fermi wavelength. The analysis includes the application of the stationary phase approximation and the time-reversal symmetry of the Green’s functions. No experimental data is used. The study does not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The Planck constant is fixed to ℏ = h/(2π) = 1.

Procedures Architectures
The study focuses on the theoretical application of Ramsey interferometry to quantum Hall edge states. The core component is a QPC, a small constriction in a Hall bar that allows for tunneling between counter-propagating edge states. The system is modeled using a Hamiltonian (Equation 5) that includes a dynamical phase, which is the integral of the voltage across the QPC over time. The voltage modulation is the key input, specifically a Ramsey voltage modulation consisting of two short pulses separated by a delay time, t0, and a constant voltage (Equation 16). The output is the current noise, specifically its Fourier transform (Equation 10), which is calculated using the Keldysh formalism. The model incorporates the Green's functions of the tunneling particles, which are derived from the chiral fields describing the edge states. The analysis involves mathematical manipulations of the current-current correlation function to second order in perturbation theory. The model considers two QPC geometries: tunneling between the two edges of a Hall bar (fractional quasiparticles) and tunneling between two separated Hall droplets (electrons). The model also considers momentum-resolved tunneling, where the tunnel junction is long compared to the Fermi wavelength. The novelty lies in applying Ramsey interferometry to quantum Hall edge states to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles and differentiate between quantum Hall states.

Key Results
The study derives an expression for the current noise under Ramsey voltage modulation (Equation 21). The noise exhibits a Ramsey interference pattern oscillating with the delay time t0 at a frequency ω − qVdc. The charge, q, appearing in this formula is the dressed charge in the fluid. For Laughlin states, the current noise is given by Equation 24, and for electrons, it is given by Equation 25. The fractionalization manifests in the Ramsey interference pattern in the prefactor (qD)^2, the Green's function of the tunneling particles, and the dynamical phase factor qVdc. The amplitude of the Ramsey oscillations decays exponentially in the high-temperature limit and follows a power law in the low-temperature limit. For momentum-resolved tunneling, the noise under Ramsey voltage modulation is given by Equation 32. For the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall case, the Ramsey signal can differentiate between the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states (Equation 34). The amplitude of the Ramsey oscillations provides information on the Green's functions of the tunneling particles. The study shows that the Ramsey signal can distinguish between the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states, but not between the Pfaffian and particle-hole Pfaffian states. The study does not report any baseline comparisons or effect sizes.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that Ramsey interferometry can be used to probe the time-dependent dynamical phase and Green's function of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall states. The charge of the tunneling particles, the Green's function, and the dynamical phase factor all contribute to the Ramsey interference pattern. The amplitude of the oscillations provides information on the Green's functions of the tunneling particles, allowing for the detection of the Green's functions in the time domain. The ability to differentiate between the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states suggests that Ramsey interferometry can be used to characterize topological states of matter. The proposed mechanism is the interference between tunneling events at the QPC, separated by a time delay. The scope condition is the applicability to quantum Hall edge states, specifically Laughlin states and the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall state. This work shifts the understanding by providing a new method to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles and characterize topological states.

Contradictions Limitations
The study is limited by its theoretical nature, as it does not involve experimental validation. The method does not detect exchange statistics, as it only involves a single QPC. The model relies on approximations, such as the stationary phase approximation. The study does not discuss the impact of experimental noise or imperfections. The study does not provide details on the experimental feasibility of the proposed method. The study does not address the limitations of the Keldysh formalism in describing the system. The study does not discuss the potential for this method to be applied to other quantum systems. The study does not mention any potential conflicts with prior literature. The study does not provide any information on the specific values of the parameters used in the calculations, such as the voltage pulse duration or the temperature.

Claims
[{"description": "Ramsey interferometry can be used to probe the time-dependent dynamical phase of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall states.", "supporting_evidence": "The current noise under Ramsey voltage modulation exhibits an interference pattern oscillating with the delay time, t0, at frequency ω − qVdc (Equation 21).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This allows for a time-resolved measurement of the dynamical phase and Green's function of the tunneling particles."}, {"description": "The Ramsey interference pattern is sensitive to the Green's function of the fractional quasiparticles.", "supporting_evidence": "The amplitude of the Ramsey oscillations provides information on the Green's functions of the tunneling particles (Equation 24, 25).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Measuring the noise as a function of the time delay t0 allows for the detection of the Green's functions of the particles in the time domain."}, {"description": "The Ramsey signal can differentiate between the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states at filling factor 5/2.", "supporting_evidence": "The current noise under Ramsey voltage modulation for the 5/2 fractional quantum Hall case is given by Equation 34, which is dependent on the state.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that Ramsey interferometry can be used to characterize topological states of matter."}, {"description": "The fractionalization manifests itself in the Ramsey interference pattern.", "supporting_evidence": "The fractionalization manifests in the prefactor (qD)^2, the Green's function of the tunneling particles, and the dynamical phase factor qVdc.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This allows for the identification of the nature of the tunneling particles, including their charge and Green's function."}]

Key Figures Tables
The paper does not contain any figures or tables that are central to the claims.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the theoretical proposal to use Ramsey interferometry to probe the dynamics of fractional quasiparticles in quantum Hall edge states, providing a time-resolved measurement of the dynamical phase and Green's function. (2) The strongest evidence is the derivation of the current noise under Ramsey voltage modulation, which exhibits an interference pattern oscillating with the delay time, t0, at frequency ω − qVdc (Equation 21), and the ability to differentiate between the Pfaffian and anti-Pfaffian states (Equation 34). (3) The primary limitation is the theoretical nature of the work, lacking experimental validation. Future work should focus on the experimental implementation and validation of the proposed method.