Executive Summary
This paper introduces a novel method for probabilistic multivariate time series forecasting that combines the efficiency of recurrent neural networks (RNNs) with the probabilistic modeling capabilities of diffusion models. The approach, termed Recurrent Interpolants (SI), leverages stochastic interpolants and conditional generation with control features. The motivation stems from the limitations of existing methods, such as RNNs and transformers, in capturing complex, high-dimensional distributions and cross-feature dependencies, and the scalability challenges of generative models like diffusion and flow-based models. The SI model uses an RNN to encode a context window of past time series observations into a history prompt. This prompt is then used by a conditional stochastic interpolant module to generate the distribution of future time points. The method was evaluated on synthetic datasets and real-world time series forecasting tasks, including Solar, Exchange, Traffic, and Wiki datasets. The results, as measured by the Continuous Ranked Probability Score (CRPS-sum), demonstrate that SI achieves competitive or superior performance compared to baseline models, including Vec-LSTM, DDPM, SGM, and FM. For example, on the Exchange rate dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.007 ± 0.001, outperforming Vec-LSTM (0.008 ± 0.001), DDPM (0.009 ± 0.004), FM (0.009 ± 0.001), and SGM (0.008 ± 0.002). The study's novelty lies in the application of stochastic interpolants within a conditional generation framework for time series prediction, offering a computationally efficient approach to modeling complex distributions. A primary limitation is the performance on the Traffic dataset, where FM achieved better results. The authors suggest that stochastic interpolants are a strong candidate for conditional generation, particularly for multivariate probabilistic forecasting.

Research Context
Autoregressive models, including RNNs and transformers, are standard for time series forecasting, but struggle with high-dimensional distributions and cross-feature dependencies. Generative models, such as diffusion and flow-based models, offer improved probabilistic modeling, yet face scalability issues. Prior work has explored latent neural SDEs and extensions of state space models using deterministic and stochastic transformation plans. These methods often require learning a mapping from noise to data distributions, which can be computationally intensive. The proposed work addresses the need for a computationally friendly framework for large-scale generative model-based time series prediction by blending the efficiency of RNNs with the probabilistic modeling of diffusion models. This is achieved by using stochastic interpolants within a conditional generation framework.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to develop a computationally efficient generative model for probabilistic multivariate time series forecasting that can capture complex distributions and cross-feature dependencies. The primary hypothesis is that a model combining the efficiency of RNNs with the probabilistic modeling of diffusion models, specifically using stochastic interpolants in a conditional generation framework, will achieve competitive or superior performance compared to existing methods. The alternative hypothesis is that the proposed method will not outperform existing methods, such as DDPM, SGM, FM, and Vec-LSTM, on standard time series forecasting benchmarks. The study aims to demonstrate that the proposed SI model can effectively learn the joint distribution of consecutive time steps conditioned on a context window, enabling accurate and reliable probabilistic forecasts. The research differs from prior work by integrating stochastic interpolants into a conditional generation framework, using an RNN to encode the context window, and applying this approach to time series forecasting.

Methodological Details
The study employs a methodological approach, introducing a novel model called Recurrent Interpolants (SI) for probabilistic time series forecasting. The study uses both synthetic and real-world datasets for evaluation. The synthetic datasets, including Circles, Moons, etc., are two-dimensional datasets with regular patterns. The real-world datasets include Solar, Exchange, Traffic, and Wiki, which are commonly used for probabilistic forecasting tasks. The preprocessing steps follow [Salinas et al., 2019]. The SI model is trained using a loss function based on the mean squared error, with importance sampling using a Beta distribution to stabilize training, particularly when the diffusion time is close to the ends. The model's architecture involves an RNN to encode the context window and a conditional stochastic interpolant module. The RNN encodes the context window xt−P:t−1 into a history prompt ht. The SI module then transports the context vector xt to the target distribution with the condition ht, following the forward SDE. The baseline models include DDPM, SGM, and FM-based generative models. The probabilistic forecasting is evaluated using CRPS-sum, normalized root mean square error (NRMSE), and normalized deviance (ND). The CRPS-sum metric is used to compare the performance of different models, with smaller values indicating better performance. The code will be publicly available. The training algorithm (Algorithm 1) takes as input sample 3-tuples (xti+1, xti, xti−P:ti−1), interpolant schedules α(s), β(s), γ(s), and models velocity ˆb, score ˆs, and RNN. The inference algorithm (Algorithm 2) takes as input sample 2-tuples (xt, xt−P:t−1), trained models velocity ˆb, score ˆs, RNN, and diffusion variance ϵ. The model diagram is illustrated in Figure 2.

Procedures Architectures
The core of the proposed method is the Recurrent Interpolants (SI) model, which combines an RNN with a conditional stochastic interpolant module. The RNN encodes the context window, xt−P:t−1, into a history prompt, ht. The stochastic interpolant module then performs conditional generation, diffusing from xt with the condition ht. The SI model is based on stochastic interpolants, which model the dependent couplings between (x0, x1) with their joint density ρ(x0, x1). The stochastic interpolant is defined as xs = α(s)x0 + β(s)x1 + γ(s)z, where z ∼ N(0, I). The model is trained to match the equality by minimizing the mean squared error loss functions Lb and Ls (Equations 15 and 16). For the time series prediction task, the model learns the joint distribution p(xt+1, xt|xt−P:t−1) of the pair (xt+1, xt) given the past observations xt−P:t−1. The baseline models, including DDPM, SGM, and FM, are adapted for step-by-step prediction. The key innovation is the use of the RNN to encode the context window and the application of stochastic interpolants within a conditional generation framework. The model uses the same neural networks for the baseline models to make a fair comparison. The model diagram is illustrated in Figure 2 and the modified framework is shown in Figure 5. The model uses a Beta distribution for importance sampling.

Key Results
The SI model was evaluated on both synthetic and real-world datasets. On synthetic datasets, the model generated samples comparable to baseline models (DDPM, SGM, FM) as measured by the Wasserstein distance (Table 1). For example, on the Circles dataset, the Wasserstein distance was 0.52 for SI (quad, linear), 0.59 for SI (sqrt, linear), 0.75 for SI (sqrt, trig), 0.52 for SI (trig, linear), 2.58 for DDPM (cosine), 0.70 for DDPM (linear), 1.10 for SGM, and 0.58 for FM. On the real-world time series forecasting tasks, the SI model achieved competitive performance. The CRPS-sum results (Table 2) show that SI outperformed or matched other models on three out of four datasets. For example, on the Exchange rate dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.007 ± 0.001, outperforming Vec-LSTM (0.008 ± 0.001), DDPM (0.009 ± 0.004), FM (0.009 ± 0.001), and SGM (0.008 ± 0.002). On the Solar dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.359 ± 0.06, which was better than Vec-LSTM (0.391 ± 0.017), SGM (0.364 ± 0.029), and DDPM (0.359 ± 0.061). On the Wiki dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.080 ± 0.007, which was better than Vec-LSTM (0.133 ± 0.002), DDPM (0.084 ± 0.023), and SGM (0.108 ± 0.026). However, on the Traffic dataset, FM achieved a better CRPS-sum of 0.038 ± 0.002, while SI achieved 0.083 ± 0.005. Figure 4 demonstrates the quality of the forecast on the Solar dataset, showing precise predictions and uncertainty quantification.

Interpretation Implications
The results suggest that the proposed SI model effectively combines the strengths of RNNs and diffusion models for probabilistic time series forecasting. The competitive performance on both synthetic and real-world datasets indicates that the stochastic interpolants framework is a viable approach for modeling complex distributions and capturing cross-feature dependencies in time series data. The success of SI, compared to other baselines, implies that carefully modeling the probability distribution is critical for large-dimension time series prediction. The findings support the theoretical extension of stochastic interpolants to a more general conditional generation framework, as described in Theorem 1. The results suggest that the proposed method offers a computationally efficient approach to modeling complex distributions in time series data.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation is the performance on the Traffic dataset, where FM achieved better results than SI. The authors note that they were unable to achieve satisfying results with flow matching hyperparameters on the Wiki dataset. The study does not provide details on the specific architectures of the RNNs or the hyperparameters used for the stochastic interpolant module, which could impact reproducibility. The study does not provide an error analysis to investigate the sources of errors in the predictions. The external validity of the results is limited by the specific datasets used. The paper does not discuss the computational cost of training and inference for the SI model compared to the baseline models. The model's performance may be sensitive to the choice of interpolant schedules and the design of the RNN encoder. The study does not address the potential for overfitting or the impact of different data preprocessing techniques.

Claims
[{"description": "The proposed Recurrent Interpolants (SI) model achieves competitive or superior performance compared to baseline models (Vec-LSTM, DDPM, SGM, and FM) on real-world time series forecasting tasks, as measured by CRPS-sum.", "supporting_evidence": "On the Exchange rate dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.007 ± 0.001, outperforming Vec-LSTM (0.008 ± 0.001), DDPM (0.009 ± 0.004), FM (0.009 ± 0.001), and SGM (0.008 ± 0.002). On the Solar dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.359 ± 0.06, which was better than Vec-LSTM (0.391 ± 0.017), SGM (0.364 ± 0.029), and DDPM (0.359 ± 0.061). On the Wiki dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.080 ± 0.007, which was better than Vec-LSTM (0.133 ± 0.002), DDPM (0.084 ± 0.023), and SGM (0.108 ± 0.026).", "contradicting_evidence": "On the Traffic dataset, FM achieved a better CRPS-sum of 0.038 ± 0.002, while SI achieved 0.083 ± 0.005.", "implications": "The results support the effectiveness of SI for probabilistic time series forecasting and suggest that the combination of RNNs and diffusion models is a promising approach."}, {"description": "Stochastic Interpolants (SI) can effectively model the joint distribution of consecutive time steps conditioned on a context window, enabling accurate and reliable probabilistic forecasts.", "supporting_evidence": "The model diagram in Figure 2 illustrates the conditional generation process, where the RNN encodes the context window and the SI module generates the distribution of future time points. Figure 4 demonstrates the quality of the forecast on the Solar dataset, showing precise predictions and uncertainty quantification.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the theoretical foundation of the SI model and its ability to capture complex dependencies in time series data."}, {"description": "The SI model is a strong candidate for conditional generation, particularly for multivariate probabilistic forecasting.", "supporting_evidence": "The results for CRPS-sum are shown in Table 2. The results for other metrics are consistent with CRPS-sum and are shown in Tables 4 and 5, in Appendix C. We outperform or match other models on three out of four datasets, only on Traffic FM model achieves better performance.", "contradicting_evidence": "On the Traffic dataset, FM achieved a better CRPS-sum of 0.038 ± 0.002, while SI achieved 0.083 ± 0.005.", "implications": "This suggests that SI is a viable alternative to other generative models for time series forecasting, but further research is needed to improve performance on all datasets."}, {"description": "The proposed method offers a computationally efficient approach to modeling complex distributions in time series data.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that the method blends the computational efficiency of recurrent neural networks with the high-quality probabilistic modeling of the diffusion model.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This implies that the SI model can be applied to large-scale time series forecasting problems."}]

Data Code Availability
The code will be publicly available (github_place_holder).

Robustness Ablation Notes
The paper tests different schedulers for the stochastic interpolant model. For example, “SI (sqrt, linear)” means we use square root gamma-function γ(s) = sqrt(2s(1 −s)) and a linear interpolant. Other gamma-functions that we consider are quad: γ(s) = t(1 −s), and trig: γ(s) = sin(πt)2. We show that most of the gamma-interpolant function combinations achieve good results modeling the target distribution.

Key Figures Tables
Table 2 presents the CRPS-sum results for the different models on the four real-world datasets. The table shows the performance of SI compared to the baseline models. Figure 4 demonstrates the quality of the forecast on the Solar dataset, showing median prediction, 50th and 90th confidence intervals. Figure 3 shows examples of model generated samples for synthetic two-dimensional datasets. The axes are not explicitly defined, but the figure visually compares the generated samples from different models.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of the Recurrent Interpolants (SI) model, which combines the efficiency of RNNs with the probabilistic modeling of diffusion models for time series forecasting, using stochastic interpolants within a conditional generation framework. (2) The strongest evidence is the competitive performance of SI on real-world datasets, as measured by CRPS-sum, outperforming or matching baseline models on three out of four datasets, demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed approach. For example, on the Exchange rate dataset, SI achieved a CRPS-sum of 0.007 ± 0.001. (3) The primary limitation is the performance on the Traffic dataset, where FM achieved better results. Future work could focus on improving the performance of SI on all datasets and exploring different architectures and hyperparameter settings.