Executive Summary
This paper introduces DUO, a novel channel-based parallel decoding mechanism to enhance large language models (LLMs) with duplex capabilities, enabling real-time conversational interactions with minimal training costs. The DUO method employs a channel-division-multiplexing strategy, allowing for simultaneous autoregressive output generation and input preprocessing. The model uses state tokens to determine whether to address or ignore a query. Experiments were conducted using MiniCPM-2.4B, comparing DUO against MiniCPM-Duplex and MiniCPM, with human evaluations and standard benchmarks. The results demonstrate that MiniCPM-Duo significantly improves responsiveness and human-likeness compared to MiniCPM-Duplex, while maintaining comparable factuality and faithfulness. MiniCPM-Duo also exhibits a substantial advantage in overall performance, with minimal training costs. The study uses a dataset of 10K samples, significantly smaller than the 5,000K samples used by MiniCPM-Duplex. The limitations include the focus on language models, which may limit the generalizability of the findings to other domains. The authors propose extending DUO to multimodal settings in future research.

Research Context
Traditional turn-based dialogue systems limit the interactive experience, with one party waiting while the other responds. Recent studies have proposed duplex models to address this challenge, enabling real-time interactive feedback. However, these approaches often require substantial computational resources for model retraining, as the designed procedure diverges substantially from the backbone model. The current work addresses the need for a duplex decoding approach that enhances LLMs with duplex ability, requiring minimal additional training, by employing parallel decoding of queries and responses in conversations.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a channel-based parallel decoding mechanism can equip LLMs with duplex capabilities, enabling real-time conversational interactions with minimal training costs. The hypothesis is that the proposed DUO method, which employs channel-division-multiplexing, will enhance the naturalness and human-likeness of user-AI interactions with minimal training costs. This hypothesis is tested by comparing DUO's performance against MiniCPM-Duplex and MiniCPM on human evaluations and standard benchmarks. The study predicts that DUO will outperform MiniCPM-Duplex in terms of responsiveness and human-likeness, while maintaining comparable levels of factuality and faithfulness, and achieving superior overall performance. The alternative hypothesis is that the proposed method will not significantly improve the quality of human-AI interactions or that the training costs will not be minimal. The study differs from prior work by focusing on a channel-based parallel decoding mechanism that minimizes the need for retraining, unlike MiniCPM-Duplex which requires substantial retraining.

Methodological Details
The study employs a methodological approach to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed DUO method. The study uses MiniCPM-2.4B as the foundation model. The dataset is constructed from Duplex-UltraChat, which structures conversations in a time-division format, adapted into a standard turn-based format. State tokens are appended to indicate whether to respond to the query. Non-query text is generated using ChatGPT. The model is trained with a 1e-5 learning rate, a constant learning rate scheduler, a batch size of 112, and a maximum length of 4,096. The loss is calculated on the state tokens and output. MiniCPM-Duo is trained for 400 steps on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for about 25 minutes. Human evaluation is conducted, following Zhang et al. (2024), considering responsiveness, human-likeness, faithfulness, and factuality. Three participants with Bachelor’s degrees assessed the dialogue histories. The evaluation criteria included responsiveness, human-likeness, faithfulness, actuality, and overall experience. Participants ranked the dialogues generated by MiniCPM-Duo and MiniCPM-Duplex. Standard benchmarks, including CMMLU, MMLU, BBH, HumanEval, MBPP, GSM8K, ARC-e, ARC-c, and HellaSwag, are used to evaluate the model's performance. The LLM evaluation platform, UltraEval, is used. The input channel predicted tokens α are set to 4.

Procedures Architectures
The DUO method employs a channel-based parallel decoding mechanism, enabling simultaneous autoregressive output generation and input preprocessing. The model processes inputs and outputs cyclically. In each cycle, the output channel generates new tokens autoregressively, while the input channel pre-fills the key-value cache and predicts the next tokens. The tokens generated by the input and output channels after time step t1 do not attend to each other, preserving language modeling in each channel. The attention mask is modified to accommodate token dependency. State tokens are used to indicate the status of the user’s query. State token <1> denotes a user query, suspending the output channel and transitioning the input channel to become the new output channel. State token <2> denotes no-query text, continuing the response to the original query and disregarding the input channel. DUO is implemented using Flex-Attention, which facilitates non-standard attention mechanisms. DUO does not increase the number of forward passes compared to standard decoding. The model generates output concurrently while the key-value cache of input is prefilled and the next tokens of input are predicted. The training of MiniCPM-Duo uses a 1e-5 learning rate, a constant learning rate scheduler, a batch size of 112, and a maximum length of 4,096. The loss is calculated on the state tokens and output. MiniCPM-Duo is trained for 400 steps on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for about 25 minutes. The decoding strategy is based on the repository provided in the paper. The input channel predicted tokens α are set to 4. The method differs from MiniCPM-Duplex by processing input and output simultaneously via optimizing the decoding strategy, functioning as a channel-division multiplexing system.

Key Results
Human evaluation results (Figure 2) show that MiniCPM-Duo demonstrates superior responsiveness and human-likeness compared to MiniCPM-Duplex, while maintaining comparable levels of factuality and faithfulness. MiniCPM-Duo exhibits a substantial advantage in overall performance. Table 1 presents the performance on standard benchmarks. MiniCPM-Duo achieves comparable results with MiniCPM-Duplex and MiniCPM. The training of MiniCPM-Duo is significantly less computationally expensive, requiring 400 steps on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for about 25 minutes, compared to MiniCPM-Duplex, which requires 10,000 steps on 40 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for 36 hours. The dataset used for training MiniCPM-Duo is significantly smaller, with 10K samples, compared to MiniCPM-Duplex, which uses approximately 5,000K samples. In the case study (Figure 3), the model demonstrates adaptive behavior in response to user interactions and silences during the query and generation processes. The model prefills the key-value cache and predicts the next tokens. Upon predicting token <1> and observing user silence, the model commences autoregressive answer generation. When the model predicts a token <2>, the new query is interpreted as a no-query voice, resulting in the deletion of the new input.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the DUO method effectively enhances LLMs with duplex capabilities, enabling real-time conversational interactions with minimal training costs. The channel-division-multiplexing strategy allows for efficient processing of input and output, improving responsiveness and human-likeness. The use of state tokens enables the model to adapt to different interaction scenarios, including non-awakening and interrupt interactions. The results imply that the proposed method can be used to improve the quality of human-AI interactions. The study's findings support the idea that it is possible to achieve real-time interaction with LLMs without requiring extensive retraining. The DUO approach can be readily adapted to multimodal large models, broadening the potential applications of this technology.

Contradictions Limitations
A significant limitation is the scope of multimodal testing, as the experiments primarily focused on language models, potentially limiting the generalizability of findings to other domains. The study does not report the random seed used for training, which could affect reproducibility. The study uses a dataset of 10K samples, significantly smaller than the 5,000K samples used by MiniCPM-Duplex. The study does not provide detailed demographic information about the human evaluators. The study does not address the potential for bias in the generated non-query text, which is generated by ChatGPT. The study does not provide information on the statistical significance of the human evaluation results. The study does not explore the impact of different hyperparameter settings on the performance of the DUO method.

Claims
[{"description": "DUO enhances the naturalness and human-likeness of user-AI interactions.", "supporting_evidence": "Human evaluation results (Figure 2) show that MiniCPM-Duo demonstrates superior responsiveness and human-likeness compared to MiniCPM-Duplex.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide quantitative measures of naturalness and human-likeness.", "implications": "The DUO method improves the user experience in conversational AI applications."}, {"description": "DUO achieves comparable performance on standard benchmarks with minimal training costs.", "supporting_evidence": "Table 1 shows that MiniCPM-Duo achieves comparable results with MiniCPM-Duplex and MiniCPM, with a training time of 25 minutes compared to 36 hours for MiniCPM-Duplex.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide a detailed analysis of the performance differences on each benchmark.", "implications": "DUO offers a more efficient approach to training duplex models."}, {"description": "DUO requires minimal additional training.", "supporting_evidence": "MiniCPM-Duo is trained for 400 steps on 8 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for about 25 minutes, while MiniCPM-Duplex is trained for 10,000 steps on 40 NVIDIA A100 GPUs for 36 hours.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not quantify the minimal training costs in terms of computational resources.", "implications": "DUO reduces the computational burden associated with training duplex models."}, {"description": "DUO can handle non-awakening interaction and interrupt interaction.", "supporting_evidence": "The case study (Figure 3) demonstrates the model's adaptive behavior in response to user interactions and silences during the query and generation processes.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide quantitative results on the performance of DUO in these scenarios.", "implications": "DUO is capable of handling complex conversational scenarios."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper provides a link to the repository for the decoding strategy: https://github.com/thunlp/Ouroboros and the interactive demo: https://github.com/thunlp/duplex-model. No information is provided about the dataset or the code used for the experiments.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The paper does not include any ablation studies or sensitivity analyses.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not explicitly address ethical considerations. The use of Google's cloud ASR and TTS APIs raises privacy concerns. The potential for the model to generate biased or harmful content is not discussed.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 illustrates the channel-based parallel decoding mechanism, showing how the input and output channels operate and how the attention mask is modified. Figure 2 presents the human evaluation results, comparing MiniCPM-Duo and MiniCPM-Duplex across various aspects. Figure 3 provides a case study, demonstrating the model's adaptive behavior. Table 1 presents the performance on standard benchmarks.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the DUO method, a channel-based parallel decoding mechanism that equips LLMs with duplex capabilities, enabling real-time conversational interactions with minimal training costs. (2) The strongest evidence is the human evaluation results, which show that MiniCPM-Duo significantly improves responsiveness and human-likeness compared to MiniCPM-Duplex, while maintaining comparable factuality and faithfulness, and achieving superior overall performance. (3) The primary limitation is the focus on language models, potentially limiting the generalizability of findings to other domains, and the open problem is extending DUO to multimodal settings, plus a forward path of adapting DUO to multimodal large models.