Executive Summary
This paper introduces a novel algorithm for imposing macroscopic stress or mixed stress/deformation gradient histories within the framework of non-linear Galerkin-based Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) homogenization. The method modifies the projection operator in the Fourier space, enabling control over the macroscopic first Piola stress or deformation gradient components. Unlike existing iterative approaches for stress control in FFT homogenization, the proposed algorithm solves the problem directly, without requiring additional iterations compared to strain control versions, neither in the linear iterative solver nor in the Newton scheme. The algorithm's efficiency is demonstrated through numerical examples, including simulations of a polycrystal and a particle-reinforced hyperelastic material. Key findings indicate that the algorithm achieves comparable convergence rates and simulation times to strain control methods, while accurately simulating stress-controlled and mixed-control loading scenarios. The novelty lies in the direct implementation of stress and mixed control within the Galerkin-based FFT homogenization, avoiding the iterative procedures typical of other FFT methods. This work is significant because it enhances the capabilities of FFT-based computational homogenization, enabling the simulation of complex loading conditions without increasing computational cost. A limitation is that the method's performance is evaluated on specific material models and loading paths; further validation across a broader range of materials and loading scenarios is needed.

Research Context
Computational homogenization is used to simulate the mechanical response of materials under various loading conditions by solving boundary problems in a periodic representative volume element (RVE). While the finite element method (FEM) has been traditionally used, FFT-based homogenization offers a computationally efficient alternative, particularly for complex geometries. Existing FFT methods often struggle with imposing macroscopic stress or mixed loading paths directly, typically relying on iterative approaches. These iterative methods can increase the number of iterations per step. The Galerkin-based approach, which uses a weak formulation and projection operators, offers an alternative that does not require a reference medium and can incorporate complex non-linear constitutive equations. This work addresses the limitation of the Galerkin-based approach, which was originally formulated for strain control, by extending it to handle stress and mixed control scenarios without the computational overhead of iterative methods.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to efficiently implement macroscopic stress and mixed stress/deformation gradient control within a Galerkin-based FFT homogenization framework. The primary hypothesis is that a modified projection operator can be defined to directly impose stress or mixed control, preserving the computational efficiency of the original strain-controlled method. An alternative hypothesis is that the proposed method will require additional iterations, increasing computational cost. The study tests this hypothesis by comparing the convergence rate and simulation time of the proposed algorithm with existing strain control methods and iterative stress control methods. The research also examines the accuracy of the simulations under different loading conditions, comparing the results of stress, strain, and mixed control scenarios. The study's design allows for a direct comparison of the proposed method's performance against established techniques, assessing its ability to accurately simulate material behavior under various loading conditions without compromising computational efficiency. The study differs from prior work by directly addressing the limitations of Galerkin-based FFT homogenization in handling stress and mixed control, rather than relying on iterative correction schemes.

Methodological Details
The study employs a Galerkin-based FFT homogenization method to simulate the mechanical response of materials under different loading conditions. The study uses a periodic RVE discretized into nx, ny, and nz voxels. The linear momentum balance is imposed in its weak form in the reference configuration. The test functions are virtual deformation gradients premultiplied by a projector operator to enforce their compatibility. The discrete form of the linear momentum balance is given by G(P(F, α)) = 0, where P is the first Piola-Kirchhoff stress, F is the deformation gradient field, α are internal variables, and G is a linear map. The linear map corresponds to a convolution in real space, computed using the discrete Fourier transform and its inverse. The study uses two material models: a particle-reinforced hyperelastic matrix and a polycrystal with crystal plasticity. The hyperelastic material is modeled using a Saint Venant-Kirchhoff hyperelastic model, with matrix properties of µ = 28 Pa and k = 46.67 Pa, and particles with properties ten times stiffer. The polycrystal model uses an elasto-visco-plastic behavior dependent on orientation and internal variables. The RVE for the hyperelastic composite contains 4 particles with a volume fraction of 0.2 and is discretized using 64^3 voxels. The polycrystal RVE is a cube discretized in 64^3 voxels and contains around 200 randomly oriented grains. Three loading conditions are applied to the hyperelastic material: mixed control (macroscopic deformation gradient imposed in x-direction, stress-free in other directions), full stress control (linear ramp from 0 to the final stress from the mixed control case), and full strain control (linear ramp to the final deformation gradient from the mixed control case). Four loading conditions are applied to the polycrystal: mixed control, full stress control, full strain control, and a pseudo-uniaxial tensile test (isochoric deformation). The simulations are performed using a pseudo-time t, with the final stage reached at t = tend. The load is divided into increments, and equilibrium is solved in each increment. The convergence criteria for the iterative linear solver is the voxel-averaged L2 norm of the residual, and for the Newton solver is the maximum deformation gradient correction relative to the averaged deformation gradient. The tolerances used are 10^-8 and 10^-6 for the linear and Newton solvers, respectively. The study does not mention any pre-registration or ethics review.

Procedures Architectures
The core of the methodology is a Galerkin-based FFT homogenization method. The method solves the linear momentum balance equation in its weak form, utilizing a modified projection operator in the Fourier space to enforce the desired loading conditions. The original projection operator, bG, is modified to create bG* for stress and mixed control. The modification involves altering the operator's behavior at null frequencies. For stress control, the null frequency projects the average part of a field into itself, achieved by defining its value as the fourth-order identity tensor. For mixed control, the operator is further modified, with the null frequency value depending on whether stress or strain is controlled in a given direction. The algorithm involves splitting the macroscopic deformation gradient into increments and solving a non-linear equation for each time increment. The non-linear system is solved iteratively, linearizing the stress around the last iteration of the deformation gradient. The linear system is solved using the conjugate gradient method. The constitutive equations used are a Saint Venant-Kirchhoff hyperelastic model for the composite and an elasto-visco-plastic crystal plasticity model for the polycrystal. The hyperelastic model is defined by shear and bulk moduli. The crystal plasticity model incorporates grain orientation and internal variables. The simulations are performed on RVEs discretized into voxels, with the number of voxels specified for each material. The loading conditions are implemented by defining ramps for the deformation gradient or stress components. The software used is not explicitly mentioned, but the method relies on FFT algorithms and iterative solvers. The key novelty is the direct implementation of stress and mixed control through the modified projection operator, avoiding the need for iterative corrections.

Key Results
The study presents results for two material models: a particle-reinforced hyperelastic composite and a polycrystal. For the hyperelastic composite, the longitudinal response under mixed control (case 1) and full stress control (case 2) are nearly identical, with the macroscopic stress superposed (Figure 1(b)). The transverse response (Figure 1(c)) shows zero transverse stresses for stress and mixed control, while strain control (case 3) develops small compressive stresses. For the polycrystal, cases 1 and 2 are similar, but not exactly superposed due to strain rate effects. Case 3 reaches the same endpoint, but the path is different, with compressive transverse stresses developing. Case 4, a pseudo-uniaxial test, shows significant differences from a real uniaxial tensile test, particularly in the transverse response (Figure 2). The performance comparison shows that the stress and mixed control simulations (cases 1 and 2) for the hyperelastic model took approximately the same number of iterations as full strain control (case 3) (Figure 3(a)). In the polycrystal, a similar tendency is achieved (Figure 3(b)). The simulation times for the hyperelastic simulations were almost identical for every boundary condition. In the polycrystal, the stress control case (2) was faster than the others due to the elastic steps (Figure 3(c)). The convergence criteria used were a voxel averaged value of the L2 norm of the residual (10^-8) for the linear solver and the maximum deformation gradient correction relative to the averaged deformation gradient (10^-6) for the Newton solver.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that a modified projection operator can effectively implement stress and mixed control in Galerkin-based FFT homogenization without increasing computational cost. The comparable performance of the proposed algorithm with strain control methods suggests that the modification does not introduce significant overhead. The accurate simulation of stress-controlled and mixed-control loading scenarios, as demonstrated by the results on the hyperelastic composite and polycrystal, validates the method's ability to handle complex loading conditions. The differences observed in the transverse response of the polycrystal under different loading conditions highlight the importance of using appropriate boundary conditions for accurate simulations. The results imply that the choice of boundary conditions significantly impacts the simulated material behavior, especially for materials with complex constitutive behavior. The study's findings contribute to a better understanding of how to efficiently simulate material behavior under various loading conditions, providing a valuable tool for computational homogenization.

Contradictions Limitations
A potential limitation is that the method's performance is only evaluated on two specific material models (hyperelastic composite and polycrystal) and specific loading paths. The generalizability of the results to other materials and loading scenarios is not fully established. The study does not provide details on the specific software used, which could affect reproducibility. The absence of information on the random seed used for generating the polycrystal's grain orientations limits reproducibility. The study does not discuss any potential limitations related to the discretization of the RVE or the convergence of the iterative solvers. The study does not address the computational cost associated with the modified projection operator itself. The study does not provide a detailed error analysis or sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of the method. The study does not discuss the impact of the chosen time step size on the accuracy of the simulations.

Claims
[{"description": "A modified projection operator can be used to implement macroscopic stress and mixed stress/deformation gradient control in Galerkin-based FFT homogenization.", "supporting_evidence": "The study defines a modified projection operator, bG*, and demonstrates its use in simulating stress and mixed control scenarios for a hyperelastic composite and a polycrystal (Equations 19 and 22).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence contradicting this claim.", "implications": "This allows for the direct simulation of complex loading conditions without the need for iterative correction schemes, improving the efficiency of the homogenization process."}, {"description": "The proposed algorithm for stress and mixed control maintains computational efficiency comparable to strain control methods.", "supporting_evidence": "The number of iterations per load increment for the stress and mixed control simulations is approximately the same as for the strain control simulations for both the hyperelastic and polycrystal models (Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence contradicting this claim.", "implications": "This suggests that the modification of the projection operator does not introduce significant computational overhead, preserving the advantages of FFT-based homogenization."}, {"description": "The choice of boundary conditions significantly affects the simulated material behavior, especially for materials with complex constitutive behavior.", "supporting_evidence": "The transverse response of the polycrystal under different loading conditions (stress, strain, and pseudo-uniaxial) shows significant differences (Figure 2), indicating the impact of boundary conditions on the simulation results.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence contradicting this claim.", "implications": "This highlights the importance of selecting appropriate boundary conditions for accurate simulations of material behavior under various loading scenarios."}, {"description": "The proposed method accurately simulates stress-controlled and mixed-control loading scenarios.", "supporting_evidence": "The stress and mixed control simulations for the hyperelastic composite and polycrystal accurately reflect the expected material behavior under the applied loading conditions (Figure 1 and 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence contradicting this claim.", "implications": "This validates the method's ability to handle complex loading conditions, enhancing the capabilities of FFT-based computational homogenization."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the results for the particle-reinforced hyperelastic material, including the RVE, and the first Piola-Kirchhoff stresses under three load cases. Figure 2 shows the results for the polycrystalline material, including the RVE, and the first Piola-Kirchhoff stresses under four load cases. These figures are crucial for comparing the different loading conditions and demonstrating the accuracy of the proposed method. Figure 3 presents a comparative analysis of the convergence and simulation times for the different loading cases, which is essential for evaluating the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithm.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is a new algorithm that directly implements macroscopic stress and mixed stress/deformation gradient control in Galerkin-based FFT homogenization by modifying the projection operator in the Fourier space, avoiding the iterative procedures typical of other FFT methods and enabling the simulation of complex loading conditions without increasing computational cost.

(2) The strongest evidence supporting the claims is the comparable convergence rates and simulation times observed for the proposed algorithm compared to strain control methods, along with the accurate simulation of stress-controlled and mixed-control loading scenarios, which is demonstrated through quantitative results in Figure 3 and the comparison of stress responses in Figures 1 and 2.

(3) The primary limitation is the evaluation of the method on only two material models and specific loading paths. Future work could involve validating the method across a broader range of materials and loading scenarios, and conducting a detailed error analysis to assess the robustness of the method.