Executive Summary
This paper introduces RIDGE, a data analysis pipeline designed for triggered searches of gravitational wave (GW) bursts, motivated by the need for specialized methods in the context of astronomical event triggers. The pipeline incorporates prior information from triggers, such as Gamma-ray Bursts (GRBs), and employs computationally efficient algorithms for data conditioning and detection statistic generation. The RIDGE pipeline uses a two-step data conditioning process involving running median-based noise floor estimation and whitening, followed by line estimation and removal using MBLT to mitigate instrumental artifacts. The detection statistic is based on regularized maximum likelihood analysis, generating sky-maps of GW likelihood. Monte Carlo simulations were conducted using a network of LIGO and Virgo detectors, with simulated Gaussian noise and injected sine-Gaussian signals. Results show that the Rrad statistic, which incorporates information from the full sky-map, outperforms the Rmm statistic. Specifically, with Rrad, a signal with hrss = 5×10−22 Hz−1/2 can be detected with approximately 62% probability at a false alarm probability of 10−2. The novelty lies in the application of new algorithms for data pre-processing and the use of regularized maximum likelihood for network analysis in triggered searches. This work is significant because it offers an independent check for results obtained with other pipelines and provides a platform for testing new regulators. The primary limitation is the use of a relatively large integration time (0.5 sec) due to filter delays, which could be improved in future versions. 

Research Context
Searches for gravitational waves triggered by astronomical events differ from all-sky searches due to the availability of prior information and the potential for computationally intensive algorithms. Existing all-sky search methods do not fully leverage prior information from triggers, such as sky location and distance information from GRBs. Prior work has explored the use of prior information in GW searches, such as in the search for GWs from the SGR-1806–20 event, but more work is needed, especially on the use of Bayesian approaches. This work addresses the need for specialized methods by developing a pipeline that incorporates prior information and new algorithms for data conditioning and detection statistic generation, which are computationally feasible in triggered searches with smaller data volumes.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to improve the sensitivity of gravitational wave burst searches triggered by astronomical events. The primary hypothesis is that incorporating prior information and employing advanced data conditioning and detection statistic algorithms will enhance the detection probability of GW signals. The study predicts that the Rrad statistic, which utilizes information from the full sky-map, will outperform the Rmm statistic in detecting simulated GW signals. The alternative hypothesis is that the performance of Rrad will not significantly differ from Rmm, suggesting that the choice of detection statistic does not substantially impact the detection sensitivity. This work differs from prior research by focusing on triggered searches, which allows for the use of more computationally expensive algorithms and the incorporation of prior information from astronomical triggers. The study aims to demonstrate that a tailored approach to data analysis can improve the detection of GW signals in the context of triggered searches.

Methodological Details
The study employed Monte Carlo simulations to evaluate the performance of the RIDGE pipeline. The study design involved generating simulated detector noise and injecting simulated GW signals into the data. The participants in the simulation were the simulated data streams from the LIGO and Virgo detectors. The sample consisted of simulated data from the 4km LIGO detectors (H1 and L1), the 2km LIGO detector (H2), and the Virgo detector (V1). The noise PSDs used were the design sensitivity curves for the LIGO and Virgo detectors. The data conditioning pipeline used a running median to estimate the noise floor, followed by whitening using FIR filters. Line noise was removed using the MBLT method. The detection statistic was based on regularized maximum likelihood, generating sky-maps. The data was generated at a sampling frequency of 16384 Hz. The procedure involved generating Gaussian, stationary noise (∼3000 sec) and adding sinusoids to simulate instrumental artifacts. Signals of constant amplitude were added at regular intervals. The injected signals corresponded to a single source located at θ = −30◦ and φ = 167.0◦. The h+(t) and h×(t) waveforms were sine-Gaussian signals with a center frequency of 235 Hz and a Q = 9. The signal strength was specified in terms of the hrss value. The conditioned data was passed to the sky-map generation code in segments of length 0.5 sec. The analysis used two detection statistics: Rmm and Rrad. The study was not preregistered, and no multiple-comparison corrections were reported. Ethics approval was not mentioned.

Procedures Architectures
The RIDGE pipeline consists of several components. First, it incorporates a mechanism to collect trigger information, such as from the Gamma-ray Coordinates Network (GCN). The data conditioning step involves two main processes: noise floor estimation and whitening. The noise floor is estimated using a running median applied to the power spectral density (PSD) of the noise. Whitening is performed using Finite Impulse Response (FIR) filters, with filter coefficients obtained from a user-specified training data segment. Line noise removal is performed using the MBLT method, which estimates the amplitude and phase modulation of line features at a given carrier frequency. The detection statistic is based on regularized maximum likelihood. The input to the algorithm is a set of equal-length, conditioned data segments from the detectors in a given network. The output, for a given sky location, is the value of the likelihood of the data maximized over all possible h+ and h× waveforms. The maximum likelihood values are obtained as a function of θ and φ, creating a sky-map. The sky-map generation code is applied in segments of 0.5 sec. The Rmm statistic is calculated as the maximum value of the sky-map divided by its minimum value. The Rrad statistic is a radial distance calculation based on the sky-map. The novelty lies in the application of new algorithms for data pre-processing and the use of regularized maximum likelihood for network analysis in triggered searches.

Key Results
The study's primary results are based on Monte Carlo simulations. The performance of the detection statistics Rmm and Rrad was characterized. The network consisted of the 4km LIGO detectors (H1 and L1), the 2km LIGO detector (H2), and the Virgo detector (V1). Simulated data included Gaussian noise and injected sine-Gaussian signals. Figure 6 shows the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves for Rmm and Rrad. For an hrss of 5 × 10−22 Hz−1/2, the Rrad statistic achieved a detection probability of approximately 62% at a false alarm probability of 10−2. The false alarm probability corresponds to a rate of 1 false event in 50 seconds. The Rrad statistic outperformed the Rmm statistic. The study found that the Rrad statistic, which incorporates information from the full sky-map, is better than the Rmm statistic. The study used hrss values of 3 × 10−22, 5 × 10−22 and 7 × 10−22 Hz−1/2. The simulated data were generated at a sampling frequency of 16384 Hz.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that incorporating information from the full sky-map, as done by the Rrad statistic, is crucial for improving the detection of GW signals in triggered searches. The superior performance of Rrad over Rmm implies that a more sophisticated approach to analyzing the sky-map can lead to increased sensitivity. The results support the hypothesis that advanced data conditioning and detection statistic algorithms can enhance the detection probability of GW signals. The study's findings have implications for the design of future GW search pipelines, indicating that the use of full sky-map statistics and advanced data conditioning techniques is beneficial. The study suggests that the RIDGE pipeline can serve as a platform for testing new regulators and algorithms, which can further improve the sensitivity of triggered searches. The study's scope is limited to the specific network and signal parameters used in the simulations.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation is the use of a 0.5-second integration time for the sky-map generation, which is larger than the duration of the injected signals. This choice was made to accommodate filter delays and may have resulted in a lower bound on the performance estimates. The study does not mention the random seed used for the simulations. The study does not provide details on the specific algorithms used for data conditioning or the exact parameters used in the MBLT method. The study is limited by the specific network configuration (H1, H2, L1, and V1) and the simulated signal parameters (sine-Gaussian signals with specific parameters). The study does not address the impact of non-Gaussian noise or the effect of different signal waveforms. The study does not discuss the external validity of the findings to other types of GW searches or the impact of real-world detector noise characteristics. The study does not provide a detailed comparison with other network analysis pipelines.

Claims
[{"description": "The Rrad statistic, which incorporates information from the full sky-map, provides better detection performance than the Rmm statistic in triggered searches for GW bursts.", "supporting_evidence": "The ROC curves in Figure 6 show that Rrad achieves a higher detection probability for a given false alarm probability compared to Rmm. For hrss = 5 × 10−22 Hz−1/2, Rrad achieves a detection probability of approximately 62% at a false alarm probability of 10−2, while Rmm's performance is lower.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim. The results consistently show the superiority of Rrad over Rmm.", "implications": "This supports the use of full sky-map statistics in triggered GW searches to improve detection sensitivity. It suggests that a judicious choice of detection statistic is required for triggered searches."}, {"description": "The RIDGE pipeline, using the Rrad statistic, can detect a GW signal with hrss = 5×10−22 Hz−1/2 with a detection probability of approximately 62% at a false alarm probability of 10−2.", "supporting_evidence": "The study's results, as shown in the ROC curves, indicate that for hrss = 5×10−22 Hz−1/2, the Rrad statistic achieves a detection probability of approximately 62% at a false alarm probability of 10−2.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This demonstrates the sensitivity of the RIDGE pipeline for detecting GW signals in triggered searches. It provides a quantitative measure of the pipeline's performance."}, {"description": "The data conditioning techniques, including running median-based noise floor estimation, whitening, and line removal using MBLT, are effective in mitigating the effects of instrumental artifacts and improving the quality of the data for GW searches.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 1 shows the effectiveness of the running median in estimating the noise floor in the presence of outliers. Figure 2 demonstrates the effectiveness of line removal using MBLT in removing line noise without affecting the injected signals.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This highlights the importance of data conditioning in GW searches and the effectiveness of the specific techniques used in the RIDGE pipeline. It suggests that these techniques contribute to the overall sensitivity of the pipeline."}, {"description": "The RIDGE pipeline is designed to be an independent check for results obtained with other network analysis pipelines.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that RIDGE uses algorithms significantly different from other network analysis pipelines.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This suggests that the RIDGE pipeline can be used to validate the results obtained by other pipelines, increasing the confidence in the findings of GW searches."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 3 presents sky-maps for noise-only and signal-plus-noise cases, illustrating the impact of a signal on the sky-map. Figure 6 shows the Receiver Operating Characteristics (ROC) curves for Rmm and Rrad, demonstrating the superior performance of Rrad. Figure 4 shows the Power Spectral Densities (PSDs) of simulated detector noise. Figure 5 shows the detector responses to the injection signal used in the Monte Carlo simulations. These figures are crucial for understanding the pipeline's performance and the effectiveness of the detection statistics.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development and evaluation of the RIDGE pipeline, a specialized data analysis pipeline for triggered searches of GW bursts, incorporating advanced data conditioning and a regularized maximum likelihood-based detection statistic. (2) The strongest evidence is the demonstration that the Rrad statistic, which incorporates information from the full sky-map, achieves a detection probability of approximately 62% for a signal with hrss = 5×10−22 Hz−1/2 at a false alarm probability of 10−2, outperforming the Rmm statistic. (3) The primary limitation is the relatively large integration time (0.5 sec) used in the sky-map generation due to filter delays. Future work could focus on optimizing the integration time and exploring alternative detection statistics to further enhance the pipeline's sensitivity.