Executive Summary
This paper introduces Dense-TSNet, an ultra-lightweight speech enhancement network designed for resource-constrained environments. The primary motivation is to address the limitations of existing deep neural network-based speech enhancement models, which often suffer from high complexity and large model sizes, making them unsuitable for edge devices. Dense-TSNet employs a novel Dense Two-Stage (Dense-TS) architecture that enhances the objective function refinement during training, improving performance compared to the classic Two-Stage architecture. The model incorporates a Multi-View Gaze Block (MVGB) to capture features from global, channel, and local perspectives using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). The study also investigates the impact of loss functions on perceptual quality, proposing Consistency Magnitude Loss. The Dense-TSNet achieves competitive performance with only approximately 14K parameters. Key findings include improved PESQ scores and perceptual quality metrics compared to baseline models, demonstrating the effectiveness of the Dense-TS architecture and MVGB. The model's ultra-lightweight design makes it suitable for deployment on edge devices. A major limitation is the exploration of methods for further compressing model size.

Research Context
Speech enhancement aims to improve speech clarity in noisy environments, crucial for applications like voice calls and ASR. Recent advancements leverage deep neural networks, particularly the Two-Stage (TS) architecture, for feature extraction. However, these models often have high complexity, limiting their use in resource-constrained scenarios like edge devices. Lightweight models can encounter performance bottlenecks due to uneven loss landscapes. Existing methods like Transformers or Mamba face deployment challenges due to the efficiency of CNNs in real-world applications. This work addresses the need for ultra-lightweight models by proposing Dense-TSNet, which combines a novel architecture with CNNs to improve performance and reduce model size.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to develop an ultra-lightweight speech enhancement network that achieves competitive performance in resource-constrained environments. The primary hypothesis is that a Dense Two-Stage (Dense-TS) architecture, combined with a Multi-View Gaze Block (MVGB) and a tailored loss function, can outperform existing lightweight models in terms of speech quality and intelligibility while maintaining a significantly smaller model size. An alternative hypothesis is that the proposed architecture may not provide substantial improvements over existing methods, or that the reduction in model size may come at the cost of performance. The study aims to demonstrate that Dense-TSNet, with its Dense-TS architecture, MVGB, and Consistency Magnitude Loss, will achieve higher PESQ scores and improved perceptual quality metrics compared to baseline models, while maintaining a model size of approximately 14K parameters. This work differs from prior research by focusing on ultra-lightweight architectures and exploring the impact of loss functions on perceptual quality.

Methodological Details
The study employs a methodological approach, proposing and evaluating a novel deep learning architecture for speech enhancement. The study uses the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset, known for its high-fidelity utterances, for training and evaluation. Speech samples were segmented into two-second intervals. The Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT) was used to convert the speech signal into the time-frequency (TF) domain. The magnitude and phase spectra were derived from the complex spectrum. The Dense-TSNet model inputs only the magnitude spectrum and performs time-frequency feature extraction through the Dense-TS structure with the TS-MVGB. The training process utilized a batch size of 2 and the AdamW optimizer. The training was conducted for up to 1,000,000 steps. The model's performance was evaluated using PESQ, CSIG, CBAK, and COVL metrics. Higher scores on these metrics reflect superior performance. The study also included an ablation study to assess the impact of different components of the proposed architecture, such as the Large Kernel Extractor (LKE), Channel Attention (CA), and Learnable-Sigmoid Gate (LSG). The study also validated the effects of the Consistency Magnitude Loss. The source codes will be released after paper acceptance, and audio samples are available at a provided GitHub link.

Procedures Architectures
The proposed Dense-TSNet architecture consists of a Dense Two-Stage (Dense-TS) structure and a Multi-View Gaze Block (MVGB). The Dense-TS structure replaces dilated convolutions in the Dilated Dense Block with Two-Stage modules, resulting in a network composed entirely of densely connected Two-Stage modules. The MVGB is designed to capture features from global, channel, and local views using CNNs. The MVGB consists of three sub-modules: Large Kernel Extractor (LKE), Learnable-Sigmoid Gate (LSG), and Channel Attention (CA). The LKE establishes a global perspective, drawing inspiration from the CNN component of Conformer. The LSG establishes local spatial perspectives. The CA reallocates weights to each channel. The input feature map x is processed through the MVGB. The output of each TS-MVGB is a serial connection of time-MVGB and freq-MVGB. The Dense-TS structure uses a series of densely connected Two-Stage modules. For each layer i in the Dense-TS, the number of input channels is Ci = dense channel × (i + 1), and the number of output channels from the i-th adjust convolutional layer is Cout = dense channel. After each Two-Stage module, a convolutional layer as Adjust-Conv is used to adjust the channel count and further integrate time-frequency information. Beyond dense connections, an extra residual connection is added. Finally, features undergo L-Sigmoid activation and 1×1 convolution to decode the magnitude spectrum mask, which is then multiplied by the noisy magnitude spectrum to produce the network’s output. The model has a size of approximately 14K parameters.

Key Results
Dense-TSNet achieves a PESQ score of 3.05, CSIG of 4.51, CBAK of 3.58, and COVL of 3.86 on the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset. The classic Two-Stage model achieves a PESQ score of 2.96, CSIG of 4.45, CBAK of 3.58, and COVL of 3.78 with 14K parameters. The Dense-TSNet model has a size of 14K parameters. Ablation studies show that removing the LKE results in a PESQ of 2.79, removing the CA results in a PESQ of 2.86, and removing the LSG results in a PESQ of 2.97. The ablation of the Consistency Loss results in a PESQ of 2.96. The study of loss functions shows that using only Consistency Magnitude Loss results in a PESQ of 3.05. When P=200, the PESQ is 3.28; when P=400, the PESQ is 3.41. When only complex loss is used, the PESQ is 2.60. The training curves in Figure 4 show that the Dense-TS framework achieves better performance in the later stages compared to the classic Two-Stage framework. Table I shows that Dense-TSNet outperforms the classic Two-Stage structure and other lightweight algorithms, achieving competitive performance with extremely low parameters.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the Dense-TS architecture and the MVGB are effective in enhancing speech quality while maintaining a small model size. The improved PESQ scores and perceptual quality metrics indicate that the proposed approach can effectively reduce noise and improve speech intelligibility. The results support the hypothesis that a densely connected architecture can improve the refinement of the objective function, leading to better performance in the later stages of training. The use of CNNs in the MVGB suggests that the model can efficiently capture relevant features for speech enhancement. The exploration of loss functions indicates that the Consistency Magnitude Loss is suitable for improving perceptual quality in the context of ultra-lightweight models. The findings have implications for the development of speech enhancement systems for resource-constrained devices, suggesting that it is possible to achieve competitive performance with significantly reduced model complexity.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not report the random seed used for training, which could affect the reproducibility of the results. The paper focuses on the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset, and the generalizability of the results to other datasets or noise conditions is not fully explored. The study does not provide details on the specific hardware used for training and inference. The paper acknowledges that the exploration of methods for further compressing model size is a future direction. The study does not provide a detailed error analysis or a comprehensive comparison with all state-of-the-art methods. The choice of the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset may limit the external validity of the findings. The study does not address potential biases in the dataset or the evaluation metrics. The study does not explore the impact of different hyperparameter settings on the model's performance.

Claims
[{"description": "The proposed Dense-TSNet achieves a PESQ score of 3.05 on the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset, outperforming the classic Two-Stage structure (PESQ=2.96).", "supporting_evidence": "Table I shows the PESQ scores for Dense-TSNet and the classic Two-Stage structure.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the effectiveness of the Dense-TS architecture in improving speech quality compared to the classic Two-Stage approach."}, {"description": "Dense-TSNet achieves competitive performance with a model size of approximately 14K parameters, making it suitable for resource-constrained environments.", "supporting_evidence": "Table I shows the model size of Dense-TSNet (14K parameters).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the ultra-lightweight nature of the proposed model, making it suitable for edge devices."}, {"description": "The ablation study shows that removing the LKE from the MVGB results in a decrease in PESQ (2.79), indicating the importance of the global view.", "supporting_evidence": "Table II shows the PESQ scores for the Dense-TSNet with and without LKE.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the design of the MVGB and the importance of global feature extraction."}, {"description": "The study demonstrates that the Consistency Magnitude Loss is effective for improving perceptual quality, as evidenced by the PESQ score of 3.05 when using this loss function.", "supporting_evidence": "Table III shows the PESQ score when using only the Consistency Magnitude Loss.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the Consistency Magnitude Loss is a suitable choice for training the ultra-lightweight speech enhancement model."}, {"description": "The Dense-TS framework achieves better performance in the later stages compared to the classic Two-Stage framework, as shown in the training curves in Figure 4.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 4 shows the training curves for the Dense-TS and classic Two-Stage frameworks.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the Dense-TS architecture is more robust in the later stages of training, leading to improved performance."}]

Data Code Availability
Source codes will be released after paper acceptance. Audio samples can be found at https://github.com/huaidanquede/Dense-TSNet

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study includes an ablation study to assess the impact of different components of the MVGB module design, including LKE, CA, and LSG. The effects of the Consistency Magnitude Loss were also validated.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 illustrates the overall architecture of the classic Two-Stage and Dense-TS (ours) models, providing a visual comparison of the architectures. Table I compares the performance of Dense-TSNet with other methods on the VoiceBank+DEMAND dataset, showing the PESQ, CSIG, CBAK, COVL, parameters, and MACs. Table II presents the ablation study results on the VoiceBank + DEMAND Dataset, showing the impact of removing different components. Table III presents the study of loss function.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the introduction of Dense-TSNet, an ultra-lightweight speech enhancement network that utilizes a Dense Two-Stage (Dense-TS) architecture and a Multi-View Gaze Block (MVGB) to achieve competitive performance with a small model size, making it suitable for resource-constrained environments. (2) The strongest evidence is the improved PESQ score of 3.05 achieved by Dense-TSNet compared to the classic Two-Stage structure (PESQ=2.96), along with the model's compact size of 14K parameters, demonstrating its effectiveness and efficiency. (3) The primary limitation is the need for further exploration of methods for compressing model size. A forward path includes continued research on model compression techniques to further reduce the model size while maintaining or improving performance.