Executive Summary
This paper investigates gluon radiation from an expanding color skyrmion within the quark-gluon plasma (QGP), using a semiclassical approach. The study is motivated by the need to understand the dynamics of the QGP formed in relativistic heavy ion collisions, specifically the gluon radiation patterns during the hydrodynamic stage. The author models the QGP as a relativistic fluid and calculates the density of states and energy spectrum of the gluon radiation emitted by an expanding color skyrmion. The key finding is a specific spectral shape: a fast fall-off in the ultraviolet (UV) region, a smooth peak at intermediate energies, and a long tail in the infrared (IR) region. The results are compared with other approaches, highlighting differences in the infrared behavior. The work is novel in its application of a hydrodynamic skyrmion model to describe gluon radiation in the QGP. The findings are relevant for interpreting experimental data from heavy ion collisions and understanding the properties of the QGP. A limitation is the semiclassical approximation used in the calculations. The study suggests that the medium size, characterized by the soliton size R0, influences the infrared behavior of the gluon radiation spectrum.

Research Context
The study addresses the gap in understanding gluon radiation during the hydrodynamic stage of the QGP evolution, particularly in the context of relativistic heavy ion collisions. Prior research has focused on medium-induced gluon radiation and jet quenching. Existing models often use approximation schemes or consider gluon density saturation in the initial stage. These approaches, however, may not fully capture the dynamics of the expanding QGP. The author's work builds upon previous research on non-abelian fluid mechanics and expanding soliton solutions, which offers a new perspective on the problem. This work aims to characterize the gluon radiation spectrum from these non-static configurations.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What is the pattern of gluon radiation from an expanding color skyrmion in the quark-gluon plasma? The author hypothesizes that the gluon radiation spectrum will exhibit a specific shape, characterized by a fast fall-off in the UV region, a smooth peak at intermediate energies, and a long tail in the IR region. This hypothesis is tested by calculating the density of states and energy spectrum of the gluon radiation. The predicted spectral shape is a key differentiating factor from other approaches, which predict different IR behavior. The study aims to provide a theoretical framework for understanding the gluon radiation patterns and their relation to the QGP's properties. The author expects that the medium size, characterized by the soliton size R0, will influence the IR behavior of the spectrum. The results are compared with the predictions of other models, specifically those that consider the medium as infinitely large, to highlight the impact of the soliton size.

Methodological Details
The study employs a theoretical approach based on non-abelian fluid mechanics and semiclassical methods. The starting point is a nonlinear sigma model describing the transport of color charges in the QGP, modeled as an ideal fluid system. The Lagrangian density is given by L = jµωµ − F(n) − geffJaµAaµ, where jµ is the abelian charge current, ωµ is the velocity field, F(n) is the free energy density, geff is the effective coupling, Jaµ is the nonabelian charge current, and Aaµ is the external gluon field. The configuration of the fluid is described by a group element field U, taking values in an SU(2) group. The equation of state (EOS) is approximated by ϵ = 3p, where ϵ is the energy density and p is the pressure. This approximation leads to F = βn4/3/4/3, where β is a dimensionless constant. The author considers an expanding soliton solution, U = U(x/R(t)), with R(t) ≈ R0(t/τ + 1)4/3θ(t), where R0 and τ are spatial and temporal characteristics. The nonabelian current Jaµ is calculated for this soliton solution using the hedgehog ansatz U = cos φ + iσ · ˆx sin φ. The semiclassical gluon radiation is calculated by considering the interaction between the expanding color skyrmion and hard partons, using the amplitude iM = geff⟨1| ∫ d4xJaµ ˆAaµ|0⟩, where |0⟩ and |1⟩ are the gluonic Fock vacuum and one-gluon state, respectively. The gluon factor is given by ⟨1| ˆAaµ(x)|0⟩ = ϕaεµeik·x/√2ω. The radiation spectrum is then calculated, leading to expressions for the density of states (n) and energy spectrum (dE/dk). The author uses the small parameter λ = τ/R0. The numerical results are presented for λ = 1/15, 2/15, and 1/5. No specific software or version information is provided. No information about preregistration or ethics is provided.

Procedures Architectures
The study focuses on a theoretical model, not a computational architecture. The core procedure involves calculating the nonabelian current corresponding to an expanding soliton solution within a non-abelian fluid mechanics framework. The soliton solution is described by U = U(x/R(t)), where R(t) ≈ R0(t/τ + 1)4/3θ(t). The hedgehog ansatz, U = cos φ + iσ · ˆx sin φ, is used to specify the solution. The nonabelian current is derived from the abelian current using the Eckart factorization Jaµ = Qajµ. The semiclassical gluon radiation is calculated using the interaction between the expanding color skyrmion and hard partons. The amplitude iM = geff⟨1| ∫ d4xJaµ ˆAaµ|0⟩ is calculated, where ⟨1| ˆAaµ(x)|0⟩ = ϕaεµeik·x/√2ω. The spatial Fourier transformation is performed to derive iM = B(k) ∫ dteiωt−R(t)kQ4(R(t)k). The final expressions for the density of states (n) and energy spectrum (dE/dk) are derived based on these calculations. The analysis involves mathematical derivations and the application of physical principles. The model is based on a nonlinear sigma model and relies on the assumption of a free parton picture. The key new element is the application of the expanding color skyrmion solution to calculate the gluon radiation spectrum.

Key Results
The study calculates the density of states (n) and energy spectrum (dE/dk) of gluon radiation from an expanding color skyrmion in the QGP. The main finding is the predicted spectral shape. The author presents the numerical results for λ = 1/15, 2/15, and 1/5 in Figure 1. The density of states is given by n = αR0λ2κ−1/2|fMλ(κ)|2, and the energy spectrum is given by dE/dk = αλ2κ1/2|fMλ(κ)|2, where α ≡ (2π5/225)(g2eff/β6) and κ = R0k. The author compares the IR behavior of the number density with the results in [6], where the asymptotic behavior is 1/k, while in this study, it is ∼1/√k. The difference arises because the medium size is considered infinite in [6], while it is characterized by the soliton size R0 in this study. Figure 2 shows n/(1/√κ) in small k for λ = 0.2. The study also notes that the characteristic momentum in this case (1/R0) is smaller than the medium-induced gluon radiation frequency ωC = 1/2ˆqL2, where ˆq is the quenching parameter and L is the in-medium path length. No specific numerical values for the peak position or the fall-off rate are provided.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the expanding color skyrmion model provides a new perspective on understanding gluon radiation in the QGP, specifically during the hydrodynamic stage of heavy ion collisions. The predicted spectral shape, with its distinct UV, intermediate, and IR characteristics, can be used to interpret experimental data. The difference in the IR behavior compared to other models highlights the importance of considering the finite size of the medium, characterized by the soliton size R0. The study implies that the dynamics of the expanding skyrmion influence the gluon radiation pattern. The author suggests that the hydrodynamic approach can be used to address the eccentricity of the elliptic flow. The results provide a theoretical framework for understanding the mechanisms of gluon radiation in the QGP and its relation to the properties of the hot QCD matter.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation is the use of a semiclassical approximation, which may not fully capture the quantum effects in the QGP. The study focuses on the lowest mode of the current, and the effects of higher polarization are not considered. The model relies on the assumption of a free parton picture, neglecting gluon self-interaction. The study does not provide information about the experimental validation of the model. The comparison with other approaches highlights the differences in the IR behavior, but the study does not offer a detailed explanation for the discrepancy. The study does not provide information on the sensitivity of the results to the choice of parameters or the validity of the approximations. The lack of information about the experimental setup and data makes it difficult to assess the external validity of the model. The study does not address potential conflicts with other theoretical models or experimental results.

Claims
[{"description": "The gluon radiation spectrum from an expanding color skyrmion in the QGP exhibits a specific shape: a fast fall-off in the UV region, a smooth peak at intermediate energies, and a long tail in the IR region.", "supporting_evidence": "The author presents the density of states and energy spectrum for λ = 1/5, 2/15, and 1/15 in Figure 1. The equations for the density of states (n = αR0λ2κ−1/2|fMλ(κ)|2) and energy spectrum (dE/dk = αλ2κ1/2|fMλ(κ)|2) are provided.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide direct experimental evidence to support the claim. The model relies on approximations.", "implications": "This spectral shape can be used to interpret experimental data from heavy ion collisions and provide insights into the properties of the QGP."}, {"description": "The IR behavior of the gluon radiation spectrum in the expanding color skyrmion model is softer than that predicted by models assuming an infinitely large medium.", "supporting_evidence": "The author states that the asymptotic behavior of the number density in small k is ∼1/√k, which is different from the 1/k behavior in [6].", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide a detailed explanation for the discrepancy.", "implications": "This difference highlights the importance of considering the finite size of the medium, characterized by the soliton size R0, in understanding the gluon radiation patterns."}, {"description": "The characteristic momentum in the expanding color skyrmion model (1/R0) is smaller than the medium-induced gluon radiation frequency ωC.", "supporting_evidence": "The author states that ωC = 1/2ˆqL2, where ˆq is the quenching parameter and L is the in-medium path length, and that ωC is significantly larger than 1/R0.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide specific numerical values to quantify the difference.", "implications": "This suggests a hierarchy between the medium-induced gluon radiation spectrum and the gluon radiation spectrum by the medium."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 presents the density of states and energy spectrum for different values of λ (1/5, 2/15, and 1/15). The x-axis represents κ, and the y-axis represents n/αR0 and dE/αdk. The figure shows the spectral shape, with a peak and a fall-off. Figure 2 shows n/(1/√κ) in small k for λ = 0.2. These figures are crucial for illustrating the main results of the study and for comparing the findings with other approaches.

Three Takeaways
The core novel contribution of this paper is the calculation of the gluon radiation spectrum from an expanding color skyrmion in the QGP. The strongest evidence is the predicted spectral shape, characterized by a fast fall-off in the UV, a peak at intermediate energies, and a long tail in the IR, as shown in Figure 1. The primary limitation is the use of a semiclassical approximation, which may not fully capture the quantum effects. A forward path could involve refining the model by considering higher-order effects and comparing the predictions with experimental data from heavy ion collisions.