Executive Summary
This paper introduces BanStereoSet, a fill-in-the-blank dataset designed to measure stereotypical social biases in multilingual Large Language Models (LLMs) for the Bangla language. The dataset comprises 1,194 sentences spanning nine bias categories: race, profession, gender, ageism, beauty, beauty in profession, region, caste, and religion. The sentences were sourced from existing English bias datasets (StereoSet, IndiBias, and GenAssocBias) and curated for the Bangla context, including translations and modifications to address linguistic nuances and cultural relevance. The study evaluated four LLMs (GPT-4o, Mistral-7B, Llama3.1-70B, and Gemma2-27B) using the dataset, measuring stereotypical response rates across different bias categories. Key findings indicate significant biases in the LLMs, with Mistral generally exhibiting the lowest bias. The study also compared the models' performance on Bangla and English versions of the dataset, revealing that the models' bias levels are not consistently different across languages. The dataset aims to facilitate the development of more equitable language technologies in the Bangladeshi context. The primary limitation is that the dataset may not adequately represent regional variations in stereotypes throughout Bangladesh, and the relatively small size of certain categories might limit the comprehensiveness of the bias evaluation.

Research Context
Existing research on bias in LLMs has predominantly focused on English-centric datasets, leaving a gap in understanding bias in other languages, particularly Bangla. Prior work has addressed gender and religious biases in Bangla, but lacked a comprehensive dataset covering a broader spectrum of bias categories within the Bangla cultural context. The study builds upon existing datasets like StereoSet, IndiBias, and GenAssocBias, which are adapted and translated to create a Bangla-specific dataset. These datasets, however, are limited in their coverage of Bangla-specific linguistic and cultural nuances. This work addresses the need for culturally and linguistically adapted datasets to evaluate and mitigate biases in LLMs for the Bangla language, which is the fifth most spoken language globally.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How do multilingual LLMs exhibit stereotypical social biases in the Bangla language, and how does this compare to their performance in English? The study hypothesizes that LLMs will demonstrate significant biases across various social categories in Bangla, as observed in English-based studies. The study also explores whether the models' performance in Bangla differs significantly from their performance in English. The study predicts that the models will show varying degrees of bias across different categories, with some categories potentially exhibiting higher bias than others. The study also explores whether Mistral, due to its architecture, will exhibit less bias compared to the other models. This work differs from prior research by creating a Bangla-specific dataset that encompasses a broader range of bias categories and by comparing the performance of LLMs on both Bangla and English versions of the dataset. If the models show high stereotypical engagement rates, it would support the hypothesis of significant biases in Bangla. If the models show similar bias patterns in both languages, it would suggest that the biases are not language-specific. If Mistral shows lower stereotypical engagement rates, it would support the hypothesis that some models are better at handling bias.

Methodological Details
The study employed a fill-in-the-blank dataset creation methodology. The BanStereoSet dataset was created using sentences from StereoSet, IndiBias, and GenAssocBias datasets. The StereoSet dataset provided data for race, gender, religion, and profession bias categories. The beauty, beauty in profession, and ageism bias categories were derived from the GenAssocBias dataset. The caste bias category was adopted from the IndiBias dataset, and a regional bias category was newly curated. The English sentences were translated into Bangla using GPT-4 with few-shot learning to enhance translation accuracy. Four native Bangla-speaking annotators reviewed each translation for accuracy, and incorrect translations were modified. The dataset comprises 1,194 sentences across nine bias categories: race (241), gender (178), religion (56), profession (206), ageism (134), beauty (130), beauty in profession (126), caste (60), and region (63). The study evaluated four multilingual LLMs: GPT-4o, Mistral-7B, Llama3.1-70B, and Gemma2-27B. The models were evaluated using three prompting templates: a baseline template and two paraphrases (details in Table 2). The baseline prompting template instructed the models to select the appropriate word from the options provided, without considering the order, and to provide only a single Bangla word as the answer. The main results are averaged across all three prompting templates. To compare results in Bangla and English, the models were also run on the English version of the dataset using the modified English sentences, corrected Bangla-translated sentences, and zero-shot learning. The study used stereotypical engagement/response rates as the primary metric, which indicates the percentage of responses aligning with stereotypical judgments, excluding unrelated engagements. No preregistration was performed, and no multiple-comparison corrections were applied.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized four multilingual LLMs: GPT-4o, Mistral-7B, Llama3.1-70B, and Gemma2-27B. The specific architectures of these models are not detailed in the paper. The models were evaluated using a fill-in-the-blank task, where the models were presented with a sentence in Bangla with a blank space and three options to fill the blank. The input to the models was the sentence and the options, and the output was the selected word. Three prompting templates were used: a baseline template and two paraphrases (Table 2). The baseline template instructed the models to select the appropriate word from the options, without considering the order, and to provide only the answer in Bangla. The paraphrased templates were not described in detail. The models were prompted using zero-shot learning. The models were evaluated on both the Bangla and English versions of the dataset. The English version used modified English sentences, corrected Bangla-translated sentences, and zero-shot learning. The study does not provide details on the hardware used for running the models or the specific software versions. The key novelty is the creation of the BanStereoSet dataset, which is specifically designed to measure stereotypical biases in LLMs for the Bangla language, and the comparison of model performance on Bangla and English datasets.

Key Results
The study's primary metric was the stereotypical engagement/response rate, representing the percentage of responses aligning with stereotypical judgments. The average stereotypical engagement rates across all bias categories were: GPT-4o (73.78% in Bangla, 63.77% in English), Mistral (55.41% in Bangla, 59.94% in English), Llama (64.09% in Bangla, 65.54% in English), and Gemma (69.73% in Bangla, 66.03% in English). Mistral showed the lowest average bias in Bangla and in English. In Bangla, Mistral performed best in seven out of nine bias categories. GPT-4o exhibited more stereotypical responses on average compared to other models. High levels of profession and region bias were observed across all models in both languages. The models showed relatively low levels of religion bias. In the English dataset, Mistral remained the least biased model on average, while Gemma was the most biased. The models showed high levels of bias in gender, profession, caste, beauty, beauty profession, and region in English. Mistral successfully handled caste bias in Bangla, but not in English. The study found no consistent major differences in model biases between Bangla and English on average. The results are presented in Table 1.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that multilingual LLMs exhibit significant stereotypical biases in the Bangla language, reinforcing the need for culturally and linguistically adapted datasets for bias evaluation. The varying performance of different models highlights the importance of model selection and training in mitigating bias. The results indicate that Mistral is more effective at handling biases in both Bangla and English. The study implies that the ability of LLMs to address bias can be language-dependent, as evidenced by Mistral's performance on caste bias in Bangla. The findings underscore the importance of extending bias research beyond English and developing datasets that reflect diverse linguistic and cultural realities. The study suggests that the presence of extremely negative attributes in the StereoSet-derived categories may influence the models' responses. The results support the idea that bias is not uniform across languages and that cultural context plays a role in how LLMs process information.

Contradictions Limitations
The study acknowledges several limitations. The dataset may not adequately represent regional variations in stereotypes throughout Bangladesh, as biases can vary between different areas. The dataset's focus on binary gender representation limits its ability to address biases concerning non-binary or gender-nonconforming identities. Challenges in translating stereotypes from English to Bangla may lead to inaccuracies or cultural mismatches. The relatively small size of certain categories, such as region bias, might limit the comprehensiveness of the bias evaluation. The dataset does not include crucial categories such as sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, or disability. The dataset predominantly captures explicit biases, potentially neglecting more subtle or underlying biases. The models' limited proficiency in Bangla might skew the results. The study does not address the potential impact of the prompting templates on the results. The lack of information about the random seed used for the experiments is a limitation. The study does not provide information about the demographics of the annotators.

Claims
[{"description": "Multilingual LLMs exhibit significant stereotypical biases in the Bangla language.", "supporting_evidence": "The average stereotypical engagement rates across all bias categories were: GPT-4o (73.78%), Mistral (55.41%), Llama (64.09%), and Gemma (69.73%).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the need for culturally and linguistically adapted datasets and mitigation strategies for LLMs."}, {"description": "Mistral exhibits lower stereotypical engagement rates compared to other models in both Bangla and English.", "supporting_evidence": "Mistral had the lowest average stereotypical engagement rates in both Bangla (55.41%) and English (59.94%). Mistral performed best in 7 out of 9 bias categories in Bangla.", "contradicting_evidence": "GPT-4o exhibited more stereotypical responses on average.", "implications": "This suggests that model architecture and training play a role in mitigating bias."}, {"description": "Profession and region bias are consistently high across all models in both Bangla and English.", "supporting_evidence": "All models showed high levels of profession and region bias in both Bangla and English.", "contradicting_evidence": "Religion bias was relatively low across all models.", "implications": "This highlights specific areas where LLMs struggle to avoid stereotypical associations."}, {"description": "The models' ability to handle caste bias is language-dependent.", "supporting_evidence": "Mistral successfully handled caste bias in Bangla but not in English.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This emphasizes the importance of language-specific training and evaluation."}, {"description": "On average, the models' bias levels do not differ significantly between Bangla and English.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found no consistent major differences in model biases between Bangla and English on average.", "contradicting_evidence": "GPT-4o and Gemma models are more biased in Bangla sentences and Mistral and Llama are more biased in English.", "implications": "This suggests that the biases are not solely language-specific, but may be related to the underlying representations learned by the models."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper does not mention any links to data or code. No information about licenses or preregistration is provided.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study used three prompting templates to assess the robustness of the results. The main results are averaged across all three prompting templates.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not explicitly discuss ethical considerations, such as risks, mitigations, approvals, privacy/consent, or dual use.

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 is the most critical table, presenting the bias analysis across models in terms of stereotypical engagement rates. The table shows the percentage of stereotypical responses for each model across different bias categories in both Bangla and English. The table allows for direct comparison of the models' performance and identifies categories where biases are most prevalent. Figure 1 provides examples of completion tasks for race bias category. Figure 2 provides examples of translations from the English version into Bangla, detailing the specific steps taken to address potential issues. Figure 3 provides an example of caste bias categories data creation from IndiBias dataset.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the BanStereoSet dataset, a fill-in-the-blank dataset designed to measure stereotypical social biases in LLMs for the Bangla language, addressing a gap in bias research by focusing on a less-studied language and culture. 

(2) The strongest evidence is the quantitative results presented in Table 1, which reveals significant biases in LLMs across various categories in Bangla, with Mistral showing the lowest average bias (55.41%) compared to GPT-4o (73.78%), Llama (64.09%), and Gemma (69.73%).

(3) The primary limitation is the potential for the dataset to not fully represent regional variations in stereotypes within Bangladesh, and the relatively small size of certain categories. Future work could focus on expanding the dataset to include more regional variations and additional bias categories, as well as exploring more sophisticated prompting techniques and mitigation strategies.