Executive Summary
This paper introduces a deep learning-based framework for hybrid precoding in millimeter-wave (mmWave) massive multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems to address the high computational complexity and limitations in exploiting spatial information of existing hybrid precoding schemes. The proposed method utilizes a deep neural network (DNN) to map the precoder selection process, optimizing the precoding process. The DNN-based approach minimizes the bit error ratio (BER) and enhances spectrum efficiency. The DNN framework is designed as an autoencoder, with multiple layers and activation functions to optimize the mapping relations. Simulation results demonstrate that the DNN-based scheme outperforms conventional methods, achieving better performance in hybrid precoding while reducing computational complexity. The study's main limitation is the sensitivity to hyperparameter selection, such as learning rate and batch size, which affects convergence and performance. The work's novelty lies in the application of deep learning to hybrid precoding in mmWave massive MIMO systems, offering a solution to the computational challenges of existing methods. This approach is significant because it improves spectrum efficiency and reduces computational complexity, which is crucial for next-generation communication systems.

Research Context
Existing hybrid precoding schemes in mmWave massive MIMO systems face high computational complexity and fail to fully exploit spatial information. Traditional methods like singular value decomposition (SVD) and geometric mean decomposition (GMD) have limitations in addressing non-convex constraints and exploiting the structural characteristics of mmWave systems. Prior works have attempted to reduce complexity or improve precoding performance using GMD-based schemes, matrix factorization, and beamspace-SVD, but they often degrade system performance. These methods struggle to leverage the sparsity statistics of mmWave massive MIMO channels. Deep learning offers a potential solution by addressing complex non-convex problems and high-computation issues, as demonstrated in various communication applications.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a deep learning-based approach can improve hybrid precoding performance in mmWave massive MIMO systems by reducing computational complexity and enhancing spectrum efficiency. The primary hypothesis is that a DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme will outperform conventional methods, such as SVD-based and GMD-based schemes, in terms of BER and spectrum efficiency. This is because the DNN can capture structural information and optimize the precoding process. The alternative hypothesis is that the DNN-based method may not significantly improve performance or may be sensitive to hyperparameter tuning. The study differs from prior work by integrating deep learning into hybrid precoding, treating the precoder selection as a mapping relation within a DNN. Success would be demonstrated by lower BER and higher spectrum efficiency compared to existing methods, while failure would be indicated by comparable or worse performance.

Methodological Details
The study employs a simulation-based approach to evaluate the performance of the proposed DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme. The mmWave massive MIMO system model includes a base station (BS) with a uniform linear array (ULA) of Nt antennas and a user with Nr received antennas. The BS sends Ns independent data streams. The channel matrix H ∈CNt×Nr is based on the Saleh-Valenzuela (SV) channel model. The system uses hybrid precoding with analog (DA ∈CNt×NRF t) and digital (DD ∈CNRF t ×Ns) precoders, and a hybrid decoder (D = DADD ∈CNt×Ns). The DNN architecture consists of multiple fully connected (FC) layers with ReLU activation functions, and an output layer with a special activation function to enforce power constraints. The learning policy uses the GMD method to decompose the channel matrix. The loss function is based on the Frobenius norm. The stochastic gradient descent (SGD) algorithm with momentum is used for training. The performance is evaluated using BER and spectrum efficiency metrics. The Keras library is used to construct and process the DNN framework. The simulation parameters include a carrier frequency of 28 GHz, and the network is trained for 45,000 iterations. The study does not mention any preregistration or ethics review.

Procedures Architectures
The proposed deep learning framework utilizes a DNN architecture for hybrid precoding in mmWave massive MIMO systems. The input layer is a fully connected (FC) layer with 128 units. Two hidden FC layers with 400 and 256 units, respectively, are used for encoding. A noise layer with 200 units is included to simulate distortion. Two additional hidden layers with 128 and 64 units are used for decoding. The output layer generates the expected output signals. ReLU activation function is used in the input and hidden layers, while a special activation function, f(s) = min(max(s, 0), Ns), is used in the output layer to enforce power constraints. The DNN is trained using the SGD algorithm with momentum. The learning framework involves generating training sequences, constructing the DNN, simulating wireless channels, and training the DNN using the SGD algorithm. The training dataset consists of structural features of the mmWave massive MIMO model and input data sequences. The system uses the GMD method to decompose the channel matrix. The computational complexity of the proposed method is O(L2NsN2 t), where L is the number of layers, Ns is the number of data streams, and Nt is the number of transmit antennas. The Keras library is used to implement the DNN.

Key Results
The DNN-based scheme outperforms the SVD-based hybrid precoding scheme, fully digital SVD-based precoding method, fully GMD-based precoding method, and new GMD-based precoding scheme in terms of BER (Figure 2). The performance improvement is more apparent between the deep-learning-based strategy and conventional methods. The BER performance degrades with increasing batch size (Figure 3). A smaller learning rate optimizes the BER performance (Figure 4). The spectrum efficiency of the DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme is higher than that of the spatially sparse precoding method and the fully digital GMD-based precoding scheme (Figure 5). The MSE performance of the deep learning-based scheme is superior to that of other means (Figure 6). The DNN-based method and the sparse precoding method converge at around 11 iterations, while the analog precoding scheme requires about 22 iterations. The deep learning-based scheme achieves better hybrid precoding performance, particularly as SNR increases.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that deep learning can effectively enhance hybrid precoding performance in mmWave massive MIMO systems. The DNN's ability to capture structural information and optimize the precoding process leads to lower BER and higher spectrum efficiency. The results imply that the non-convex optimization challenges in hybrid precoding can be addressed using deep learning. The study highlights the potential of deep learning in wireless communication by demonstrating its effectiveness in improving the performance of a critical component of 5G and beyond systems. The proposed approach offers a new way to design hybrid precoders. The results suggest the importance of hyperparameter tuning for optimal performance.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the sensitivity of the DNN's performance to hyperparameter selection, such as the learning rate and batch size, which can affect convergence and performance. The paper does not provide details on the specific hardware used for simulations, the random seed, or the train/test split. The study's external validity is limited by the simulation-based methodology. The results are compared with conventional schemes, but the study does not address the impact of channel estimation errors. The study does not discuss any ethical considerations. The study does not mention any negative or unexpected results. The study does not provide details on the specific hardware used for simulations.

Claims
[{"description": "The proposed DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme achieves lower BER compared to SVD-based and GMD-based schemes.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 2 shows that the DNN-based method outperforms the SVD-based hybrid precoding scheme, fully digital SVD-based precoding method, fully GMD-based precoding method, and new GMD-based precoding scheme.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the hypothesis that deep learning can improve the performance of hybrid precoding in mmWave massive MIMO systems."}, {"description": "The spectrum efficiency of the DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme is higher than that of the spatially sparse precoding method and the fully digital GMD-based precoding scheme.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 5 shows that the proposed hybrid precoding scheme outperforms other strategies, achieving better hybrid precoding performance.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed hybrid precoding scheme in terms of spectrum efficiency."}, {"description": "The performance of the DNN-based scheme is sensitive to batch size.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 3 shows that the BER performance degrades with increasing batch size.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of careful hyperparameter tuning for optimal performance."}, {"description": "The DNN-based hybrid precoding scheme exhibits lower computational complexity compared to other schemes.", "supporting_evidence": "The computational complexity of the deep-learning-based method is O(L2NsN2 t), which is lower than that of other schemes.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the proposed method is more computationally efficient than existing approaches."}, {"description": "The MSE performance of the deep learning-based scheme is superior to that of other means.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 6 shows that the MSE performance of the proposed deep learning based scheme is superior than that of other means.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the proposed approach realizes superior performance in terms of the hybrid precoding accuracy and conversion compared to other schemes."}]

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study investigates the impact of different learning rates and batch sizes on the BER performance. The MSE performance is analyzed to assess the robustness and stability of the proposed approach.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 compares the BER performance of the DNN-based scheme with other methods, demonstrating the superiority of the proposed approach. Figure 3 shows the impact of batch size on BER. Figure 5 presents the spectrum efficiency performance, showing the proposed scheme's advantage. Figure 6 shows the MSE performance of the deep learning-based method, the analog precoding approach, and the sparse precoding method.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the application of deep learning to hybrid precoding in mmWave massive MIMO systems, which addresses the computational complexity and performance limitations of existing methods. (2) The strongest evidence is the simulation results showing that the DNN-based scheme achieves lower BER and higher spectrum efficiency compared to conventional schemes (Figure 2 and Figure 5). (3) The primary limitation is the sensitivity of the DNN's performance to hyperparameter tuning, and an open problem is how to select the best learning rate. A forward path includes applying deep learning in the channel feedback issue to alleviate the issues related to codebook size and feedback overhead.