Executive Summary
This paper explores the nature of gravitation, contrasting Einstein's theory of general relativity (GTR) with a field-theoretic approach in Minkowski space, and its extension, the relativistic theory of gravitation (RTG). The author derives the gravitational energy-momentum tensor from the Einstein equations, presenting them as an acceleration tensor proportional to the total energy-momentum tensor. For flat space cosmology, gravitational energy is negative and cancels material energy. The RTG, which incorporates bimetric coupling between Riemann and Minkowski metrics, breaks general coordinate invariance. The paper considers a positive cosmological constant and presents an analytical, singularity-free solution for the Schwarzschild black hole's interior. In this solution, the metric tensor components decay rapidly but do not change sign, preserving the role of time. For cosmology, the RTG covers the ΛCDM model and exhibits inflation at early times, with both total and zero-point energy vanishing. The study reveals that the field-theoretic approach is equivalent to a curved space description. The RTG, however, views gravitation as a field in flat space, aligning with Maxwell's perspective. A key finding is the regularization of the Schwarzschild black hole interior within the RTG framework, where time maintains its standard role, and escape is theoretically possible. The primary limitation is the focus on theoretical models without empirical validation. Future work includes exploring realistic equations of state for black holes, classical tunneling of its radiation, and aspects of inflation and inhomogeneous cosmology.

Research Context
The paper addresses the fundamental question of whether gravitation is best described as a curvature of spacetime (Einstein's view) or as a field in flat space (Maxwell's view). The standard model of general relativity faces challenges in defining a local energy-momentum density. Prior work by Babak and Grishchuk derived the proper energy-momentum tensor of gravitation using a field-theoretic approach in Minkowski space. Nathan Rosen's bimetric theory, involving both Minkowski and Riemann metrics, provides another relevant context. These approaches offer alternatives to GTR's reliance on general coordinate invariance. The paper builds on these foundations by exploring the implications of these different perspectives, particularly in the context of black holes and cosmology. The lack of a clear understanding of gravitational energy and the limitations of GTR in describing black hole interiors and early universe inflation motivate this research.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether gravitation is fundamentally a curvature of space, a field in flat space, or a combination of both. The paper explores this question by examining the mathematical and physical consequences of different theoretical frameworks. The primary hypothesis is that a field-theoretic approach, particularly the RTG, can provide a more complete and potentially more tractable description of gravitation, especially in extreme environments like black holes and the early universe. The paper predicts that the RTG will offer a singularity-free solution for the Schwarzschild black hole interior, preserving the standard role of time. It also predicts that the RTG will align with the ΛCDM model in cosmology and exhibit an inflationary phase at early times. The study aims to support these hypotheses by deriving and analyzing the mathematical properties of the RTG and comparing its predictions with those of GTR. The alternative hypothesis is that GTR remains the most accurate and complete description, and the RTG will encounter inconsistencies or fail to provide significant advantages. The outcomes that would support the primary hypothesis include a well-behaved black hole interior, consistency with cosmological observations, and a natural explanation for inflation. Refutation would involve inconsistencies within the RTG framework or discrepancies with observed phenomena.

Methodological Details
The paper employs a theoretical methodology, deriving and analyzing equations within the framework of general relativity and the relativistic theory of gravitation (RTG). The study begins with a field-theoretic approach in Minkowski space, utilizing the metric tensor and the acceleration tensor. The Einstein equations are then re-expressed in terms of the total energy-momentum tensor. The analysis proceeds by considering the Friedman-Lemaitre-Robertson-Walker (FLRW) metric for cosmology. The paper then transitions to the RTG, which introduces bimetric coupling and breaks general coordinate invariance. The Schwarzschild black hole is analyzed within the RTG framework. The analysis involves solving equations derived from the Einstein equations with a positive cosmological constant, and the harmonic condition. The paper uses mathematical derivations and analytical solutions to explore the behavior of the metric tensor components and the motion of test particles. The study does not involve empirical data collection or experimental procedures. The analysis relies on the manipulation of equations and the interpretation of their solutions. The paper does not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study's ethical considerations are not explicitly addressed. The paper uses the following definitions: Minkowski metric (γµν), Riemann metric tensor (gµν), acceleration tensor (Aµν), total energy momentum tensor (Θµν), FLRW metric (ds²), Schwarzschild black hole, and the RTG. The paper does not specify the software used.

Procedures Architectures
The paper's core procedure involves deriving and analyzing equations within the context of general relativity and the relativistic theory of gravitation (RTG). The analysis begins with the Einstein equations, which are reformulated using a field-theoretic approach in Minkowski space. The key component is the derivation of the acceleration tensor (Aµν) and the total energy-momentum tensor (Θµν). The RTG framework introduces bimetric coupling, using both the Minkowski metric (γµν) and the Riemann metric (gµν). The Schwarzschild black hole solution is derived and analyzed within the RTG framework. The paper presents a parametric solution for the metric components (U, V, W) inside the black hole. The equations are solved to determine the behavior of the metric components and the motion of test particles. The architecture involves the interaction of the Minkowski and Riemann metrics within the RTG. The paper introduces a small parameter, η, related to the cosmological constant, to analyze the black hole solution. The paper also discusses the implications of the harmonic constraint, which reduces the gauge invariance of GTR. The new element is the application of the RTG to the Schwarzschild black hole, providing a singularity-free solution. The paper uses equations (1) through (26) to describe the mathematical framework and the key results. The paper does not specify the hardware used.

Key Results
The paper presents several key results. First, the Einstein equations can be expressed in terms of an acceleration tensor proportional to the total energy-momentum tensor (Equation 6). For flat space cosmology, the gravitational energy density is negative and cancels the matter energy density, resulting in zero total energy. In the RTG, the choice of a positive cosmological constant allows for a singularity-free solution for the Schwarzschild black hole interior. The metric components U and V remain positive inside the horizon, preserving the role of time (Figure 1). The paper provides an analytical solution for the metric components U, V, and W inside the black hole, which coincides with the Schwarzschild solution for ξ ≫ 1. The width of the transition layer, or 't Hooft's brick wall, is estimated to be ℓ⋆ = ηrh. The paper also analyzes the motion of test particles within the RTG framework. In cosmology, the RTG recovers the ΛCDM model (Equation 26). The paper finds that the gravitational energy precisely compensates for other energy contributions at all times, and the vacuum energy vanishes. The solution for the black hole interior shows that the components of the metric tensor quickly die out, but do not change sign. The paper does not report any baseline comparisons or effect sizes.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the field-theoretic approach to gravitation, particularly the RTG, offers a viable alternative to GTR, especially in extreme gravitational environments. The regularization of the Schwarzschild black hole interior within the RTG framework implies that the singularity problem might be resolved, and the standard role of time is preserved. The recovery of the ΛCDM model in cosmology supports the RTG's consistency with observed phenomena. The vanishing of total energy in flat space cosmology and the compensation of gravitational and material energy suggest a deeper connection between gravity and energy. The results support the interpretation that curvature is a geometric description of the gravitational field in flat space. The findings imply that the quantum version of RTG, if it exists, will involve the quantization of fields, but not of space. The paper suggests that the RTG aligns with Maxwell's view of gravitation as a field in flat space. The results shift the understanding of black holes and cosmology by providing a potentially more complete and consistent theoretical framework.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation of the paper is its purely theoretical nature, lacking empirical validation. The absence of experimental or observational evidence to support the RTG's predictions is a significant constraint. The paper relies on mathematical derivations and analytical solutions, without addressing potential inconsistencies or limitations within the RTG framework itself. The paper does not discuss the potential for subgroup effects or the external validity of the theoretical models. The paper does not discuss the potential for inconsistencies with prior literature, except to highlight the differences between the RTG and GTR. The paper's focus on theoretical models limits its applicability to real-world scenarios. The paper does not mention the random seed, train/test split, or demographics. The analysis of the Schwarzschild black hole is limited to a specific theoretical framework, and the implications of the findings depend on the validity of the RTG. The paper's conclusions are based on mathematical derivations and analytical solutions, which may not fully capture the complexities of the physical world.

Claims
[{"description": "The Einstein equations can be expressed in terms of an acceleration tensor proportional to the total energy-momentum tensor.", "supporting_evidence": "Equation (6) presents the Einstein equations in the form Aµν = (8πG/c4)Θµν, where Aµν is the acceleration tensor and Θµν is the total energy-momentum tensor.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This reformulation provides a field-theoretic perspective on gravitation, potentially simplifying the analysis of gravitational phenomena."}, {"description": "In flat space cosmology, the gravitational energy density is negative and cancels the matter energy density, resulting in zero total energy.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that for flat space cosmology, the gravitational energy density, τ00 = −3c4 ˙a2/(8πGa2), is negative and cancels the one of matter, T00 = ρ.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result suggests a fundamental relationship between gravity and energy, where the total energy of the universe can be zero."}, {"description": "The relativistic theory of gravitation (RTG) provides a singularity-free solution for the Schwarzschild black hole interior.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper presents an analytical solution for the metric components U, V, and W inside the black hole, which remains positive, preserving the role of time (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This finding suggests that the RTG may resolve the singularity problem in black holes, offering a more complete description of their interior structure."}, {"description": "The RTG recovers the ΛCDM model in cosmology.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that if a ≫ 1 and a ≫ a2/3∗, Equation (26) just coincides with the ΛCDM model.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result indicates that the RTG is consistent with current cosmological observations."}, {"description": "The gravitational energy precisely compensates for other energy contributions at all times in the RTG.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that in RTG, the gravitational energy precisely compensates the other energy contributions at all times.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result suggests a fundamental relationship between gravity and energy, where the total energy of the universe can be zero."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 is crucial, depicting the black hole functions U(r), V(r), and W(r) scaled by factors, compared to the Schwarzschild solution. The x-axis represents r, and the y-axis represents the metric components. The figure demonstrates that the RTG solution, while differing from Schwarzschild's near the horizon, maintains positive values for U and V inside the horizon, preserving the role of time. This visualization is essential for understanding the paper's central claim about the singularity-free interior of the black hole.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the application of the relativistic theory of gravitation (RTG) to the Schwarzschild black hole, providing a singularity-free solution where time maintains its standard role. (2) The strongest evidence is the analytical solution for the metric components inside the black hole, which, as shown in Figure 1, remains positive, demonstrating the absence of a singularity and the preservation of time. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of empirical validation. Future work should focus on testing the RTG's predictions against observational data and exploring its implications for other gravitational phenomena, such as the behavior of matter falling into black holes.