Executive Summary
This paper investigates the feasibility of giant planet formation via gravitational fragmentation in the inner regions of circumstellar discs. The authors employed radiative hydrodynamic simulations using the SPH code dragon, incorporating a novel method for treating the energy equation and equation of state, accounting for radiative transfer effects, including the different chemical and internal states of hydrogen and the properties of dust. Two scenarios were examined: a disc heated by a cool background radiation field (10 K) and a disc heated by radiation from its central star. The simulations, focusing on radii < 40 AU, showed that in neither case did the disc fragment. In the first case, the disc could not cool fast enough, and in the second, it was not gravitationally unstable. The primary finding is that disc fragmentation is unlikely to produce giant planets around solar-type stars at radii < 40 AU. The study's novelty lies in its detailed treatment of the energy equation and equation of state within the SPH simulations, including radiative transfer and realistic dust opacities. This work is significant because it challenges the gravitational fragmentation theory as a mechanism for forming close-orbiting giant planets, a common observation. A key limitation is the restriction to the inner disc regions (R < 40 AU), leaving open the possibility of fragmentation at larger radii.

Research Context
The formation of exoplanets, particularly giant planets in close orbits, is a subject of ongoing debate. Two primary formation theories exist: core accretion and gravitational fragmentation. Core accretion faces challenges due to the long timescales required, while gravitational fragmentation offers a faster formation timescale. Prior studies have produced contradictory results on the viability of fragmentation, primarily due to differing treatments of radiative transfer in disc simulations. Some studies suggest convection provides sufficient cooling, while others argue for inefficient cooling, making fragmentation unlikely. This paper addresses the gap by employing a new method to treat the energy equation and equation of state, incorporating radiative transfer effects, to investigate the thermodynamics of discs and the probability of fragmentation, thus providing a more comprehensive understanding of the process.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether gravitational fragmentation can form giant planets in the inner regions (R < 40 AU) of circumstellar discs. The primary hypothesis is that disc fragmentation is unlikely to produce giant planets at these radii. This prediction is based on the expectation that discs either cannot cool fast enough to fragment or are not gravitationally unstable. Alternative outcomes include disc fragmentation leading to planet formation, which would be supported by the observation of density enhancements and the formation of gravitationally bound objects within the simulations. This study differs from previous work by using a novel method for treating the energy equation and equation of state in SPH simulations, including radiative transfer effects and realistic dust opacities. The study aims to provide a more accurate assessment of the thermal behavior of discs and its impact on the potential for fragmentation, refining the understanding of the conditions necessary for giant planet formation via this mechanism.

Methodological Details
The study employed radiative hydrodynamic simulations using the SPH code dragon. The simulations modeled a 0.07 M⊙ disc around a 0.5 M⊙ star, extending initially from 2 to 40 AU. The initial surface density profile was Σ(R) ∝ R−1/2, and the initial temperature profile was T(R) ∝ R−1. The SPH code utilized an octal tree for gravity calculations, adaptive smoothing lengths, multiple particle timesteps, artificial viscosity (α = 0.1, β = 0.2), and a second-order Runge-Kutta integration scheme. The energy equation was treated using the method of Stamatellos et al. (2007), accounting for compressional, viscous, and radiative heating and cooling. The equation of state considered the rotational and vibrational degrees of freedom of molecular hydrogen, as well as the different chemical states of hydrogen and helium. Dust and gas opacity were parameterized using the Bell & Lin (1994) method. Two simulations were performed: one with a constant background radiation field of 10 K and another with radiation from the central star (TBGR ∝ R−1). The simulations used 2x10^5 SPH particles. No preregistration was performed. The study did not mention any ethics or IRB review.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized the SPH code dragon, incorporating a new method for treating the energy equation and equation of state. The method, detailed in Stamatellos et al. (2007), accounts for compressional, viscous, and radiative heating and cooling. The code uses an octal tree for gravity calculations and adaptive smoothing lengths. The equation of state incorporates the rotational and vibrational degrees of freedom of molecular hydrogen, as well as the different chemical states of hydrogen and helium. The dust and gas opacity were parameterized using the Bell & Lin (1994) method. The simulations were initialized with a 0.07 M⊙ disc around a 0.5 M⊙ star, extending from 2 to 40 AU. The initial surface density was Σ(R) ∝ R−1/2, and the initial temperature was T(R) ∝ R−1. Two simulations were run: one with a constant background radiation field of 10 K and another with radiation from the central star (TBGR ∝ R−1). The simulations used 2x10^5 SPH particles. The key innovation is the detailed treatment of the energy equation and equation of state, which includes radiative transfer effects and realistic dust opacities, allowing for a more accurate modeling of the thermal behavior of the disc.

Key Results
The simulations showed that in the case of a disc heated by a low-temperature background radiation field (10 K), the disc did not fragment. Weak spiral arms formed, but the cooling time was generally > 2tORB (orbital period) within approximately 30 AU (Figure 5). The Toomre parameter, Q, was > 1 (Figure 4), indicating gravitational stability. In the simulation with stellar heating, the disc was overall hotter, and the disc did not fragment because it was not gravitationally unstable (Q > 1.5, Figure 14). The heating from the central star stabilized the disc, and no spiral arms formed (Figures 9-12). The results of the simulation with low background heating were compared with Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007). The calculated temperatures were approximately 15% higher than Boley et al. (2006) and less than 3% higher than Cai et al. (2007). The Toomre parameter was generally higher, and the cooling times were lower in comparison to Boley et al. (2006). The vertical temperature profile was compared to the analytic calculations of Hubeny (1990) and found to be similar (Figure 8).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that gravitational fragmentation is unlikely to be a viable mechanism for forming giant planets close to solar-type stars (R < 40 AU). The simulations indicate that discs either cannot cool fast enough or are not gravitationally unstable in these inner regions. The results support the view that stellar irradiation stabilizes the disc, preventing fragmentation. The study reinforces the importance of cooling time and gravitational instability (Toomre parameter) in determining the likelihood of fragmentation. The results align with previous analytical calculations and simulations that suggest fragmentation might be possible at larger radii, potentially leading to the formation of brown dwarfs or low-mass stars rather than close-orbiting giant planets. The study implies that alternative planet formation mechanisms, such as core accretion, may be more relevant for forming giant planets in close orbits.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation is the focus on the inner disc regions (R < 40 AU), which restricts the scope of the conclusions. The study does not address the possibility of fragmentation at larger radii, where cooling times might be shorter. The simulations do not account for the effects of magnetic fields or other potential mechanisms that could influence disc evolution and planet formation. There is a potential contradiction with the theory that fragmentation is possible at larger radii, which could produce brown dwarfs or low-mass stars. The study does not provide details on the specific values used for the artificial viscosity parameters. The initial conditions and the specific parameters of the SPH code, such as the number of particles, could influence the results. The study does not include any sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of the results to changes in the model parameters. The lack of information on random seeds and train/test splits, if applicable, limits the reproducibility.

Claims
[{"description": "Gravitational fragmentation is unlikely to produce giant planets around solar-type stars at radii < 40 AU.", "supporting_evidence": "The simulations showed that in both cases (low background heating and stellar heating), the disc did not fragment. In the low background heating case, the cooling time was > 2tORB within approximately 30 AU (Figure 5). In the stellar heating case, the Toomre parameter was > 1.5 (Figure 14).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim within the simulated parameter space.", "implications": "This finding suggests that alternative planet formation mechanisms, such as core accretion, may be more important for forming giant planets in close orbits."}, {"description": "Discs heated by a low-temperature background radiation field do not fragment because they cannot cool fast enough.", "supporting_evidence": "In the simulation with a 10 K background radiation field, the cooling time was generally > 2tORB (Figure 5), and the disc did not fragment.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim within the simulated parameter space.", "implications": "This highlights the importance of efficient cooling for gravitational fragmentation to occur."}, {"description": "Stellar heating stabilizes the disc, preventing fragmentation.", "supporting_evidence": "In the simulation with stellar heating, the disc did not fragment, and no spiral arms formed (Figures 9-12).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim within the simulated parameter space.", "implications": "This suggests that stellar irradiation may inhibit the formation of giant planets via gravitational fragmentation in the inner regions of discs."}, {"description": "The results of the simulations are comparable to those of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007).", "supporting_evidence": "The calculated temperatures were approximately 15% higher than Boley et al. (2006) and less than 3% higher than Cai et al. (2007). The strength of the spiral arms was similar to Cai et al. (2007).", "contradicting_evidence": "The Toomre parameter was generally higher, and the cooling times were lower in comparison to Boley et al. (2006).", "implications": "This indicates that the results are robust across different numerical methods and radiative transfer schemes."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study performed a comparison with the results of Boley et al. (2006) and Cai et al. (2007), showing similar results despite different treatments for radiative transfer and hydrodynamics. The simulation with a smaller number of SPH particles (5 x 10^4) produced essentially the same results as the simulation with 2x10^5 particles.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 5, which shows the cooling time in units of the local orbital period, is critical in supporting the claim that the disc cannot cool fast enough to fragment in the low background heating case. Figure 14, showing the Toomre parameter and cooling time for the stellar heating case, supports the claim that the disc is not gravitationally unstable. Figure 8, which compares the vertical temperature profiles with the analytic calculations of Hubeny (1990), provides a validation of the simulation's results.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the use of a newly developed method for treating the energy equation and equation of state in SPH simulations, including radiative transfer effects and realistic dust opacities, to investigate the potential for gravitational fragmentation in protoplanetary discs.

(2) The strongest evidence is that in both simulations, the disc did not fragment. In the low background heating case, the cooling time was generally > 2tORB within approximately 30 AU (Figure 5), and in the stellar heating case, the Toomre parameter was > 1.5 (Figure 14).

(3) The primary limitation is the restriction to the inner disc regions (R < 40 AU), leaving open the possibility of fragmentation at larger radii. Future work could focus on extending the simulations to larger radii and incorporating additional physical processes, such as magnetic fields, to provide a more comprehensive understanding of planet formation.