Executive Summary
This paper investigates the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in the coherent cohomology of Shimura varieties and their subschemes. The central problem is to relate the Hecke eigenvalues on a Shimura variety to those on its Hecke-equivariant subschemes. The study focuses on mod p abelian type Shimura varieties at hyperspecial level. The main result, Theorem A, demonstrates that for any Hecke-equivariant closed subscheme of the special fiber of a compact abelian type Shimura variety, the systems of Hecke eigenvalues in the cohomology of the Shimura variety and the subscheme are identical. Theorem B extends these results to noncompact Shimura varieties and nonclosed subschemes, such as Ekedahl-Oort and length strata. The methodology involves a novel approach to handle higher-dimensional and potentially singular subschemes, overcoming limitations of previous methods that relied on zero-dimensional smooth subschemes. The key innovation is a further "going-down" argument, intersecting the subscheme with the smallest length stratum and successively removing singular points to obtain a smooth closed subscheme with a nowhere vanishing Hecke-equivariant section. This approach allows the authors to relate Hecke eigenvalues on the subschemes to those on the Shimura variety, leveraging the existence of Hasse invariants. The findings are significant because they provide a deeper understanding of the Hecke action on Shimura varieties and their subschemes, and they generalize prior results. A main limitation is the technical assumption that G = Gc, which provides a smooth surjective morphism to the stack of G-zips. Future work may explore relaxing this assumption and extending the results to a broader class of Shimura varieties.

Research Context
Prior work, such as Serre's letter to Tate, and the work of Goldring-Koskivirta, and Terakado-Yu, established that the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in the cohomology of a mod p modular curve are the same as those appearing in the cohomology of the supersingular locus. These results were generalized to Hodge-type Shimura varieties and central leaves. However, these studies focused on zero-dimensional smooth subschemes. This paper addresses the gap by extending these results to higher-dimensional and possibly singular subschemes of Shimura varieties. The existing approaches relied on the existence of nowhere vanishing Hasse invariants and the exactness of the conormal sequence, which do not hold for higher-dimensional subschemes. This work overcomes these limitations by introducing a new going-down argument, enabling the study of more general subschemes and providing a more comprehensive understanding of the Hecke action.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How are the systems of Hecke eigenvalues in the coherent cohomology of a Shimura variety related to those in the cohomology of its Hecke-equivariant subschemes? The main hypothesis, supported by Theorem A, is that for compact abelian type Shimura varieties, the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in the cohomology of the Shimura variety and any Hecke-equivariant closed subscheme are the same. Theorem B extends this to noncompact Shimura varieties and nonclosed subschemes. The alternative hypothesis is that the systems of Hecke eigenvalues might differ, particularly for higher-dimensional or singular subschemes, due to the complexities of the Hecke action on these objects. The study differs from prior work by considering higher-dimensional and potentially singular subschemes, which requires new techniques to overcome the limitations of previous methods. The study predicts that the going-down and going-up arguments, combined with the use of Hasse invariants, will allow the authors to relate the Hecke eigenvalues on the subschemes to those on the Shimura variety. The outcomes that would support the hypotheses are the demonstration of the equivalence of Hecke eigenvalues, while refuting the hypotheses would involve finding examples where the systems of eigenvalues differ.

Methodological Details
The study employs a theoretical approach, focusing on the properties of Shimura varieties, Hecke algebras, and coherent cohomology. The primary object of study is the special fiber of the Kisin-Vasiu integral canonical model of an abelian type Shimura variety at hyperspecial level K, denoted SK. The analysis considers Hecke-equivariant subschemes of SK, including closed subschemes, Ekedahl-Oort strata, length strata, and central leaves. The key data structures are the automorphic line bundles, denoted V(η), and the Hodge line bundle, ω. The study utilizes the theory of G-zips to relate the Shimura variety to the stack of G-zips. The main tools are the Hecke algebra, H, and the Hecke action, which acts on the coherent cohomology groups. The core methodology involves relating Hecke eigenvalues on a Shimura variety to those on its subschemes. The proof strategy involves a further "going-down" argument, intersecting a subscheme with the smallest length stratum it intersects, and successively removing singular points to obtain a smooth closed subscheme, ZK. The analysis uses the conormal exact sequence and Hasse invariants. The study relies on existing results from [GK19] and [TY22]. The key metrics are the systems of Hecke eigenvalues. The study does not involve empirical data or computational experiments. The study does not mention a preregistration. The study uses the notation M(YK) to denote the direct sum of cohomology groups with coefficients in automorphic line bundles. The study relies on the properties of G-zips, the Ekedahl-Oort and length stratifications, and the Hasse invariants. The proofs are based on algebraic manipulations and the application of existing theorems and lemmas. The study uses the notation M(ZK) ⇝H M(YK) to denote that the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in M(ZK) also appears in M(YK), and M(ZK) ↭H M(YK) when both directions hold. The study assumes G = Gc, where Gc is the cuspidal quotient of G by its maximal central torus that is split over R but anisotropic over Q. This assumption is a technical one that provides a smooth surjective morphism to the stack of G-zips.

Procedures Architectures
The study does not involve the construction of any specific architectures or systems. The core objects are mathematical structures: Shimura varieties, Hecke algebras, and coherent cohomology. The Shimura varieties are defined by Shimura data (G, X), where G is a reductive group and X is a Hermitian symmetric space. The study focuses on abelian type Shimura varieties. The Hecke algebra, H, is the unramified, prime-to-p global Hecke algebra, defined as the restricted tensor product of local Hecke algebras. The Hecke action is defined by push-pull operators acting on the coherent cohomology groups. The study uses the Kisin-Vasiu integral canonical model of the Shimura variety and its special fiber, SK. The Ekedahl-Oort and length stratifications are fundamental to the methodology. The morphisms ζK : SK → G-Zipµ are smooth and surjective, and are used to define automorphic vector bundles. The study relies on the existence of Hasse invariants, which are sections of the Hodge line bundle. The main procedure involves relating the Hecke eigenvalues on a Shimura variety to those on its subschemes. The proof strategy involves a further "going-down" argument, intersecting a subscheme with the smallest length stratum it intersects, and successively removing singular points to obtain a smooth closed subscheme, ZK. The conormal exact sequence is used to relate the ideal sheaves of the subschemes. The study leverages the properties of the Hodge line bundle and automorphic vector bundles. The study uses the notation ω = det ΩSK for the Hodge line bundle. The key components are the Shimura variety SK, the Hecke algebra H, and the Hecke action. The novel aspect is the application of the "going-down" argument to higher-dimensional subschemes, which is not present in previous work. The study uses the notation M(YK) for the direct sum of cohomology groups with coefficients in automorphic line bundles.

Key Results
The main results are Theorem A and Theorem B. Theorem A states that for any Hecke-equivariant closed subscheme YK of the special fiber SK of a compact abelian type Shimura variety at hyperspecial level, the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in M(SK) and M(YK) are the same. Corollary 3.2.7 extends this to any two G(Ap f)-equivariant systems of closed subschemes (ZK)K, (YK)K ⊂ (SK)K, stating that M(YK) ↭H M(ZK). Theorem B extends these results to noncompact Shimura varieties and nonclosed subschemes. Specifically, Theorem 3.3.2(a) states that M(SK) ⇝H M(YK) for any locally closed G(Ap f)-equivariant subscheme YK. Theorem 3.3.2(b) states that if YK ⊂ SΣK is closed, then M(YK) ⇝H M(SK). Theorem 3.3.2(c) states that if YK meets the basic locus, then M(SK) ↭H M(YK). Theorem 3.3.2(d) states that if YK = ζ*KY for a closed substack Y of G-Zipµ, then M(YK) ↭H M(SK). Corollary 3.3.3 states that for an Ekedahl-Oort stratum or a length stratum YK, and a central leaf C(x) closed in the Ekedahl-Oort stratum containing it, M(YK) ↭H M(SK), and if SK is compact, then M(SK) ↭H M(C(x)). The results are established through a series of lemmas and theorems, building upon existing results and introducing a novel "going-down" argument. The results are not directly comparable to baselines or state-of-the-art methods, as the paper is theoretical. The results are based on mathematical proofs and do not involve any statistical analysis or effect sizes. The results are presented in terms of the equivalence of systems of Hecke eigenvalues, denoted by M(ZK) ↭H M(YK).

Interpretation Implications
The findings provide a deeper understanding of the relationship between the Hecke eigenvalues of a Shimura variety and those of its subschemes. The results support the idea that the Hecke action is well-behaved on these subschemes. The main implication is that the study of Hecke eigenvalues on a Shimura variety can be reduced to the study of Hecke eigenvalues on its subschemes, such as Ekedahl-Oort strata and central leaves. This simplification can provide valuable insights into the representation theory of the Hecke algebra. The results suggest that the systems of Hecke eigenvalues are preserved under certain geometric operations, such as taking subschemes and closures. The findings also provide a framework for studying the Hecke action on noncompact Shimura varieties and nonclosed subschemes. The results have implications for the study of automorphic forms and the Langlands program, as they relate to the spectral decomposition of the cohomology of Shimura varieties. The results also clarify the relationship between the cohomology of Shimura varieties and the cohomology of their subschemes. The study provides a mechanism for relating the Hecke eigenvalues on the subschemes to those on the Shimura variety, which is the "going-down" argument. The scope conditions are that the Shimura varieties are of abelian type, and the level is hyperspecial. The understanding shifts towards a more comprehensive view of the Hecke action on Shimura varieties and their subschemes.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation is the technical assumption that G = Gc, which provides a smooth surjective morphism to the stack of G-zips. This assumption restricts the scope of the results to a specific class of Shimura varieties. The results are limited to the context of mod p abelian type Shimura varieties at hyperspecial level. The study does not address the case of non-abelian type Shimura varieties. The results are theoretical and do not provide any computational or experimental validation. The study relies on existing results and techniques, which may introduce limitations from the original sources. The study does not address the potential for different systems of Hecke eigenvalues to appear on different subschemes. The study does not address the computational complexity of determining the Hecke eigenvalues. The study does not provide any information about the distribution of the Hecke eigenvalues. The study does not address the potential for the Hecke action to be non-trivial on certain subschemes. The study does not provide any analysis of the stability of the results under perturbations of the parameters. The study does not provide any analysis of the sensitivity of the results to the choice of the level structure. The study does not provide any analysis of the external validity of the results. The study does not address the potential for conflicts with prior literature. The study does not provide any information about the potential for subgroup effects.

Claims
[{"description": "For any Hecke-equivariant closed subscheme YK of a compact abelian type Shimura variety SK, the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in M(SK) and M(YK) are the same.", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem A (Theorem 3.2.6) proves this statement.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result simplifies the study of Hecke eigenvalues by allowing the analysis to be restricted to subschemes."}, {"description": "For any two G(Ap f)-equivariant systems of closed subschemes (ZK)K, (YK)K ⊂ (SK)K, the systems of Hecke eigenvalues appearing in M(YK) and M(ZK) are the same.", "supporting_evidence": "Corollary 3.2.7 is a direct consequence of Theorem A.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result shows that the systems of Hecke eigenvalues are preserved under the operation of taking subschemes."}, {"description": "For any locally closed G(Ap f)-equivariant subscheme YK of a Shimura variety SK, M(SK) ⇝H M(YK).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 3.3.2(a) proves this statement.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result establishes a relationship between the Hecke eigenvalues of the Shimura variety and its locally closed subschemes."}, {"description": "If YK meets the basic locus, then M(SK) ↭H M(YK).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 3.3.2(c) proves this statement.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result provides a specific case where the systems of Hecke eigenvalues are the same."}, {"description": "If YK is an Ekedahl-Oort stratum or a length stratum, and C(x) is a central leaf closed in the Ekedahl-Oort stratum containing it, then M(YK) ↭H M(SK), and if SK is compact, then M(SK) ↭H M(C(x)).", "supporting_evidence": "Corollary 3.3.3 proves this statement.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This result provides specific examples of subschemes where the systems of Hecke eigenvalues are the same."}]

Key Figures Tables
The paper does not contain any figures or tables that are central to the claims. The key results are presented in the form of theorems and corollaries, which are supported by mathematical proofs. The proofs rely on existing results and techniques, and do not involve any visual representations of data.

Three Takeaways
The core novel contribution is the extension of the results on Hecke eigenvalues to higher-dimensional and possibly singular subschemes of Shimura varieties, which was achieved by introducing a new "going-down" argument. The strongest evidence is provided by Theorem A and Theorem B, which demonstrate the equivalence of the systems of Hecke eigenvalues under certain conditions. The primary limitation is the technical assumption that G = Gc, which restricts the scope of the results. Future work could focus on relaxing this assumption and extending the results to a broader class of Shimura varieties.