Executive Summary
This paper investigates the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of powers of ideals in graded algebras and its relationship to the cohomology of stalks and fibers of morphisms. The study refines existing results on the regularity of powers of ideals, particularly in relation to the behavior of ideal sheaves. A key contribution is a short proof of a refinement of a theorem by Kodiyalam and Cutkosky, Herzog and Trung, which addresses the regularity of powers of ideals. This result implies a conjecture by H`a and generalizes a result by Eisenbud and Harris. The paper then compares the cohomology of the stalks and fibers of a projective morphism, relating this comparison to the maximum of the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularities over fibers and stalks of a family of projective schemes. The main results include a theorem that provides a formula for the limit of the regularity of powers of ideals, and a series of corollaries that provide geometric criteria for the regularity of powers of ideals. The paper demonstrates that the limit of the regularity of saturation of powers, or powers of ideal sheaves, has a geometric interpretation related to the dimension of fibers of a morphism. The novelty lies in providing a concise proof and extending the results to ideal sheaves and relating them to the geometry of the morphism. The findings are significant for understanding the behavior of the regularity of powers of ideals and its connection to the geometry of morphisms. A limitation is that the results are primarily theoretical, and the paper does not include computational or experimental validation. The paper also does not address the practical implications of the findings.

Research Context
Prior work by Kodiyalam and Cutkosky, Herzog and Trung established that the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of the power of an ideal in a standard graded algebra is eventually a linear function. This result was later extended to standard graded algebras over a Noetherian ring by Trung and Wang. However, the existing proofs were lengthy. Eisenbud and Harris proved a result for graded ideals which are primary for the graded maximal ideal in a standard graded algebra over a field. H`a generalized this result, proving that if an ideal is generated in a single degree, a variant of the regularity satisfies a specific formula. These prior works lacked a concise proof and did not fully explore the connection between the regularity of powers of ideals and the cohomology of stalks and fibers of morphisms. This paper addresses these gaps by providing a shorter proof of a refined result and extending the findings to ideal sheaves and relating them to the geometry of the morphism.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research questions revolve around the behavior of the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of powers of ideals and its relationship to the cohomology of stalks and fibers of morphisms. The paper investigates the limit behavior of the regularity of powers of ideals and its connection to the geometry of morphisms. The primary hypothesis is that the limit of the regularity of powers of ideals can be expressed in terms of the cohomology of the stalks of a related morphism. The paper tests this hypothesis by providing a refined theorem and several corollaries that relate the regularity of powers of ideals to geometric properties, such as the dimension of fibers of a morphism. The paper also tests the conjecture of H`a on the regularity of powers of ideals. The approach differs from prior work by providing a more concise proof of existing results and extending them to ideal sheaves, and by relating the regularity of powers of ideals to the geometry of the morphism, specifically the cohomology of stalks and fibers. The paper also aims to provide a geometric criterion for determining when the regularity of powers of ideals exhibits a specific linear behavior.

Methodological Details
The paper employs a theoretical approach, relying on algebraic and geometric techniques to investigate the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of powers of ideals and its connection to the cohomology of stalks and fibers of morphisms. The study focuses on Noetherian graded algebras, graded ideals, and finitely generated graded modules. The key concepts include Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity, local cohomology, and the torsion functor. The paper uses the ˇCech complex to define and analyze local cohomology. The proofs involve spectral sequences and the comparison of cohomology of stalks and fibers. The paper introduces the notion of regularity over a scheme, generalizing the usual notion of regularity. The analysis involves the use of spectral sequences and the comparison of cohomology of stalks and fibers. The paper uses the concept of a graded module and defines two invariants attached to such a module: ai(M) and bj(M). The paper defines the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of a graded S-module M as reg(M) := max i {ai(M) + i} = max j {bj(M) −j} + n −σ. The paper also uses the invariant a*(M) := max i {ai(M)} = max j {bj(M)} −σ. The paper uses the theory of spectral sequences to relate the cohomology of stalks and fibers. The paper does not mention any specific datasets, instruments, or software. The paper does not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The paper does not mention any ethics or IRB considerations.

Procedures Architectures
The paper does not describe any specific procedures or architectures in the context of computational models or systems. The paper presents mathematical proofs and theoretical results within the framework of commutative algebra and algebraic geometry. The core of the methodology involves manipulating graded modules, ideals, and algebraic varieties using tools like spectral sequences, local cohomology, and the torsion functor. The paper introduces the concept of regularity over a scheme, which generalizes the usual notion of regularity. The proofs involve the construction and analysis of spectral sequences, particularly those arising from the double complex associated with local cohomology. The paper utilizes the properties of Noetherian rings and graded algebras extensively. The paper defines the notion of a rational map and its graph, which is central to the geometric interpretation of the results. The paper uses the notion of a fiber of a morphism and relates its dimension to the limit of the regularity of powers of ideals. The paper does not describe any novel architectures or algorithms. The paper relies on existing mathematical tools and concepts to derive its results. The paper does not specify any particular software versions or hardware used in the analysis.

Key Results
The paper presents several key results, primarily concerning the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of powers of ideals. Theorem 1.1 provides a refined result on the regularity of powers of ideals. The paper proves that the limit of a specific expression involving the regularity of powers of ideals exists. The paper demonstrates that the limit of the regularity of saturation of powers, or powers of ideal sheaves, has a geometric interpretation related to the dimension of fibers of a morphism. Theorem 5.3 implies H`a's conjecture and provides a formula for the limit of a specific expression involving the regularity of powers of ideals. Theorem 6.9 provides a series of results relating the regularity of powers of ideals to the geometry of morphisms, including the dimension of fibers and the behavior of Hilbert quasi-polynomials. The paper shows that if a morphism has fibers of a certain dimension, the regularity of powers of ideals exhibits a specific behavior. The paper does not provide specific numerical values for the regularity or other metrics, as the results are primarily theoretical. The paper does not include any baseline or SOTA comparisons.

Interpretation Implications
The findings provide a deeper understanding of the behavior of the Castelnuovo-Mumford regularity of powers of ideals and its connection to the geometry of morphisms. The results show that the limit of the regularity of powers of ideals is related to the cohomology of stalks and the dimension of fibers of a morphism. The paper provides a geometric criterion for determining when the regularity of powers of ideals exhibits a specific linear behavior. The results have implications for understanding the structure of graded algebras and the behavior of ideal sheaves. The paper suggests that the geometry of the morphism, specifically the dimension of its fibers, plays a crucial role in determining the regularity of powers of ideals. The findings provide a theoretical framework for analyzing the regularity of powers of ideals in terms of geometric invariants. The paper does not propose specific mechanisms but rather establishes relationships between algebraic and geometric properties. The scope conditions are primarily limited to Noetherian graded algebras and graded ideals. The understanding shifts towards a more geometric perspective on the regularity of powers of ideals, emphasizing the role of the morphism and its fibers.

Contradictions Limitations
The paper is purely theoretical, and there are no experimental results to validate the findings. The results are limited to the context of Noetherian graded algebras and graded ideals. The paper does not address the computational aspects or practical implications of the findings. The paper does not provide examples or case studies to illustrate the results. The paper does not discuss the limitations of the theoretical framework or the potential for generalization to other settings. The paper does not discuss the potential impact of the findings on other areas of mathematics or computer science. The paper does not address the issue of external validity or the applicability of the results to real-world problems. The paper does not provide any discussion of potential conflicts with prior literature, although it builds upon and refines existing results. The paper does not provide any discussion of subgroup effects or other potential sources of bias.

Claims
[{"description": "The limit of the expression `ai(ItM) + i −td` exists for any `i`, where `A` is a positively graded Noetherian algebra, `M` is a finitely generated graded `A`-module, `I` is a graded `A`-ideal, and `d` is a specific value related to `I` and `M` (Theorem 4.1).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 4.1 provides a formal statement and proof of this claim. The proof involves setting `J := I≤d`, constructing related algebras and modules, and applying Theorem 2.1.", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This result provides a foundation for understanding the asymptotic behavior of the regularity of powers of ideals."}, {"description": "The limit of `lim t→+∞(ai(MIt) −td)` can be expressed as the maximum of the end degree of the i-th local cohomology of the stalks of a projection `π`, for ideals generated in a single degree (Theorem 5.3).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 5.3 provides a formal statement and proof of this claim. The proof relies on Proposition 5.1 and the definition of `ai(Γ)`.", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This result provides a connection between the regularity of powers of ideals and the geometry of a related morphism, specifically the cohomology of stalks."}, {"description": "If a morphism `π` admits a fiber `Z` of dimension `i-1`, then `lim t→∞(ai(It) + i −td) ≥ ai(Z) + i ≥ 0` (Theorem 6.9 (ii)).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 6.9 (ii) provides a formal statement of this claim, which is derived from Theorem 5.3 and Proposition 6.3 (i).", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This result provides a geometric interpretation of the limit of the regularity of powers of ideals in terms of the dimension of fibers of the morphism."}, {"description": "If `π : Γ→PmY` is finite, then `reg(It) = a1(It) + 1 = freg(Γ) + td, ∀t ≫0` (Theorem 6.9 (iv)).", "supporting_evidence": "Theorem 6.9 (iv) provides a formal statement of this claim, which is derived from Theorem 5.3 and Proposition 6.3 (i).", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This result establishes a specific relationship between the regularity of powers of ideals and the fiber regularity when the morphism is finite."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The paper does not include any robustness or ablation studies.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not discuss any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
The paper does not contain any figures or tables that are central to the claims. The results are presented in the form of theorems, propositions, and corollaries.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is a concise proof of a refined result on the regularity of powers of ideals and its extension to ideal sheaves, along with a connection to the geometry of morphisms, specifically the cohomology of stalks and fibers. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the formal statements and proofs of the theorems and corollaries, which establish relationships between the regularity of powers of ideals and geometric properties. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of computational or experimental validation, and the open problem is to explore the practical implications of the findings and to extend the results to more general settings. A forward path involves exploring the computational aspects and generalizing the results to different classes of rings and ideals.