Executive Summary
This paper presents a theoretical framework for combining Quantum Electrodynamics (QED) and Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) resummation techniques, along with shower/matrix element (ME) matching, to improve the precision of theoretical predictions for processes at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). The authors extend the Yennie-Frautschi-Suura (YFS) theory, used for QED, to incorporate QCD effects, allowing for the simultaneous resummation of multiple gluon and photon radiative effects. The core methodology involves exponentiating the large infrared (IR) terms in both QCD and QED, leading to a new result (dˆσexp) that is then combined with parton shower Monte Carlo (MC) methods, such as HERWIG and PYTHIA, to avoid double-counting. The authors apply this theory to single heavy gauge boson production, specifically W and Z bosons, at hadron colliders. Key findings include the demonstration that QED effects contribute at the level of approximately 0.3% to the cross-section, comparable to structure function results, and that this effect is stable under scale variations. This necessitates the inclusion of QED effects to achieve the desired precision for LHC luminosity determinations. The novelty lies in the exact resummation of both QCD and QED effects, enabling a more precise treatment of radiative corrections. A limitation is the ongoing development of a full MC event generator realization. The work is significant because it provides a theoretical basis for achieving high-precision predictions for LHC physics, particularly for processes used in luminosity measurements.

Research Context
Accurate theoretical predictions are crucial for precision measurements at the LHC, especially for determining luminosity. The existing QCD resummation theory, based on the N=1 term in the exponent in the eikonal approximation, provides a foundation but lacks the precision needed for the LHC. Prior approaches, such as those in Refs. [5–7], offer approximate resummation theories. The soft-collinear effective theory (SCET) has been developed to treat double resummation of soft and collinear effects. However, these methods do not fully account for both QCD and QED effects simultaneously. The inclusion of QED effects is necessary to achieve the required precision for LHC luminosity processes. The authors address the gap by extending the YFS theory to simultaneously resum QED and QCD effects, improving upon existing QCD resummation methods and providing a more complete theoretical framework for precision calculations.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to improve the theoretical precision of predictions for LHC physics, specifically for processes like single W and Z boson production. The primary hypothesis is that simultaneously resumming QED and QCD effects, using an extension of the YFS theory, will lead to more accurate predictions compared to using QCD resummation alone. This is motivated by the need for a theoretical precision tag at the 0.67% level for luminosity processes to avoid compromising the overall precision of LHC luminosity determinations. The authors predict that QED effects will contribute significantly to the cross-section, at a level of approximately 0.3%, necessitating their inclusion. Alternative approaches would involve using only QCD resummation or approximate methods. The outcomes that would support the hypothesis include: (1) demonstrating that QED effects are non-negligible, and (2) showing that the combined QED⊗QCD resummation provides a more accurate description of the processes compared to QCD alone. The work differs from prior work by providing an exact resummation of both QCD and QED effects, enabling a more precise treatment of radiative corrections and a more complete theoretical framework for precision calculations.

Methodological Details
The study is theoretical, developing a new framework for QED⊗QCD resummation. The core methodology involves extending the YFS theory. The parton-level cross section for single heavy boson production, such as q + ¯q′ →V + n(g) + X →¯ℓℓ′ + n(g) + X, where V = W ±, Z, and ℓ= e, µ, ℓ′ = νe, νµ(e, µ) respectively for V = W +(Z), and ℓ= νe, νµ, ℓ′ = e, µ respectively for V = W −, is expressed as a function of gluon residuals (˜¯βn) and the functions SUMIR(QCD) and DQCD. The new QED⊗QCD theory is obtained by simultaneously exponentiating the large IR terms in QCD and the exact IR divergent terms in QED. The resulting cross-section (dˆσexp) is then combined with parton shower MC methods. The functions SUMIR(QCED), DQCED are determined from their QCD analogs via substitutions. The residuals ˜¯βn,m(k1, . . ., kn;k′1, . . . , k′m) are free of all infrared singularities. The parton-level cross section is combined with parton distribution functions (PDFs) using the standard formula: dσexp = Σi,j ∫ dxidxjFi(xi)Fj(xj)dˆσexp(xixjs). The authors use semi-analytical methods and structure functions from Ref. [23] to examine the size of QED⊗QCD threshold corrections. They intend to combine their resummation calculus with HERWIG and/or PYTHIA. The collinear limit regulator is the quark mass (mq). The DGLAP evolution of the structure functions is used to factorize terms involving powers of the big log Lc = ln µ2/m2q −1. The factorization scale µ represents the largest pT of the gluon emission included in the structure function. The final result should be independent of the regulator. The authors compute the ratio rexp = σexp/σBorn, where σBorn is the Born cross section. The formulas for γQCED, FYFS(γQCED), and δYFS(γQCED) are used. The study does not involve experimental data collection or participant recruitment. No specific ethical considerations are discussed.

Procedures Architectures
The paper presents a theoretical framework rather than a specific experimental setup or computational architecture. The core of the methodology is the extension of the YFS theory to simultaneously resum QED and QCD effects. The starting point is the QCD resummation theory, which is an exact rearrangement of the QCD perturbative series. This resummation is based on the N=1 term in the exponent in the formal proof of exponentiation in non-Abelian gauge theories in the eikonal approximation. This exponential is augmented with a sum of residuals which take into account the remaining contributions to the perturbative series exactly to all orders in αs. The new QED⊗QCD theory is obtained by simultaneously exponentiating the large IR terms in QCD and the exact IR divergent terms in QED. The resulting cross section, dˆσexp, is expressed in terms of YFS residuals (˜¯βn,m) and functions (SUMIR(QCED), DQCED) derived from their QCD counterparts through specific substitutions. The authors intend to combine their exact YFS-style resummation calculus with existing parton shower MCs like HERWIG and PYTHIA. The combination involves using the parton shower to generate a parton shower starting from the initial (x1, x2) point at factorization scale µ. The authors describe a pT matching procedure to avoid double counting. The paper also mentions the potential for a more accurate approach involving shower-subtracted residuals. The architecture involves the interaction of theoretical calculations with existing MC event generators.

Key Results
The primary result is the development of a QED⊗QCD resummation theory. The authors compute the ratio rexp = σexp/σBorn, where σexp is the cross-section with QED⊗QCD resummation and σBorn is the Born cross section. The results are: rexp = 1.1901 for QCED (QCD+QED) at the LHC, rexp = 1.1872 for QCD at the LHC, rexp = 1.1911 for QCED (QCD+QED) at the Tevatron, and rexp = 1.1879 for QCD at the Tevatron (Equation 8). The QED effect is approximately 0.3% at both the LHC and FNAL. This is stable under scale variations. The authors find that the QED effect is similar in size to structure function results found in Refs. [9–13]. The authors agree with the results in Refs. [15,16,18–20] on the respective sizes of the QED and QCD effects. The semi-analytical results for QED (and QCD) threshold effects agree with literature on Z production. The authors illustrate the interplay between the higher-order QED and QCD effects using the leading ˜¯β0,0-level result.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the simultaneous resummation of QED and QCD effects is crucial for achieving high-precision predictions for LHC physics, particularly for processes used in luminosity measurements. The 0.3% contribution from QED, comparable to structure function results, necessitates its inclusion in theoretical calculations to reach the desired precision tag of 0.67%. The results validate the theoretical framework and highlight the importance of considering both QED and QCD radiative corrections. The authors' approach provides a more accurate description of the processes compared to using QCD resummation alone. The work implies that the interplay between QED and QCD effects is significant and must be accounted for in precision calculations. The findings support the use of the YFS theory for simultaneous exponentiation of QED and QCD in non-Abelian gauge theory. The authors' work provides a firm theoretical basis for the realization of the complete O(α2s, ααs, α2) results needed for the FNAL/LHC/RHIC/ILC physics.

Contradictions Limitations
The paper does not explicitly address any contradictions. The primary limitation is the ongoing development of a full MC event generator realization. The paper does not provide details on the specific implementation of the MC methods. The lack of detailed numerical results beyond the ratio rexp could be considered a limitation. The paper does not discuss the potential impact of approximations made in the YFS theory or the uncertainties associated with the theoretical calculations. The paper does not provide information on the specific parton distribution functions (PDFs) used or the factorization scale. The paper does not discuss the computational resources required for the calculations or the software versions used. The paper does not mention any potential subgroup effects or external validity concerns. The paper does not provide any information on the specific experimental cuts under study.

Claims
[{"description": "Simultaneous resummation of QED and QCD effects is necessary for achieving the required precision in LHC physics.", "supporting_evidence": "The authors find that QED effects contribute at the level of approximately 0.3% to the cross-section (Equation 8), which is comparable to the precision needed for LHC luminosity determinations. This necessitates the inclusion of QED effects to achieve the desired theoretical precision tag of 0.67%.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This implies that neglecting QED effects would compromise the accuracy of theoretical predictions for LHC processes, particularly those used in luminosity measurements. This supports the use of the YFS theory for simultaneous exponentiation of QED and QCD."}, {"description": "The QED⊗QCD resummation framework provides a more accurate description of heavy gauge boson production compared to using QCD resummation alone.", "supporting_evidence": "The authors develop a new QED⊗QCD resummation theory based on the extension of the YFS theory. This allows for the simultaneous resummation of multiple gluon and photon radiative effects. The results show that the QED effects are non-negligible.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the new framework can improve the precision of theoretical predictions for LHC physics, leading to more accurate comparisons with experimental data and more reliable interpretations of the results."}, {"description": "The QED effect is stable under scale variations.", "supporting_evidence": "The paper states that the QED effect is stable under scale variations.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the theoretical framework is robust and that the results are not highly sensitive to the choice of the factorization scale. This increases the confidence in the reliability of the predictions."}, {"description": "The semi-analytical results for QED threshold effects agree with the literature on Z production.", "supporting_evidence": "The authors state that their semi-analytical results for QED threshold effects agree with the literature on Z production.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This validates the theoretical framework and increases the confidence in the accuracy of the calculations. This also suggests that the framework can be applied to other processes."}]

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of a theoretical framework for simultaneously resumming QED and QCD effects in LHC physics, using an extension of the YFS theory. This allows for a more precise treatment of radiative corrections and a more complete theoretical framework for precision calculations. (2) The strongest evidence is that QED effects contribute at the level of approximately 0.3% to the cross-section, which is comparable to the precision needed for LHC luminosity determinations (Equation 8). This necessitates the inclusion of QED effects to achieve the desired theoretical precision tag. (3) The primary limitation is the ongoing development of a full MC event generator realization. A forward path involves completing the full MC event generator realization and extending the analysis to W production.