Executive Summary
This paper presents results from the STAR experiment on three-particle azimuthal correlations in proton-proton (pp), deuterium-gold (d+Au), and gold-gold (Au+Au) collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 200 GeV per nucleon-nucleon pair. The study investigates the presence of conical emission, potentially indicative of Mach cones, in the quark-gluon plasma (QGP) created in heavy ion collisions. The analysis focuses on correlations between a high-transverse momentum (pT) trigger particle (3 < pT < 4 GeV/c) and two softer associated particles (1 < pT < 2 GeV/c). The primary finding is the observation of an off-diagonal structure in the three-particle correlations in central Au+Au collisions, consistent with conical emission. The study also examines the dependence of the emission angle on the associated particle pT, finding no significant dependence, which supports the hypothesis of Mach cone emission. The novelty lies in using three-particle correlations to distinguish between different mechanisms for the observed away-side broadening in heavy-ion collisions. This work is significant because it provides insights into the properties of the QGP. The main limitation is the systematic uncertainty associated with the background subtraction and flow corrections.

Research Context
The study of heavy-ion collisions aims to create and characterize the QGP. Two-particle jet-like azimuthal correlations have shown broadened away-side shapes in central Au+Au collisions. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain this broadening, including large-angle gluon radiation, jet deflection, and hydrodynamic conical flow. Prior work lacked the ability to distinguish between these mechanisms. This work addresses this gap by using three-particle correlations to differentiate between conical flow and other mechanisms, such as Čerenkov radiation, which also exhibit conical emission. The study also investigates the dependence of the emission angle on the associated particle pT to further differentiate between hydrodynamic conical flow and simple Čerenkov radiation.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether there is evidence for Mach cones in heavy ion collisions, which would provide insights into the properties of the QGP. The primary hypothesis is that the three-particle azimuthal correlations in central Au+Au collisions will exhibit an off-diagonal structure indicative of conical emission, which is a signature of Mach cones. An alternative hypothesis is that the observed away-side broadening is due to other mechanisms, such as large-angle gluon radiation or jet deflection, which would not produce the same off-diagonal structure. The study also tests the hypothesis that the emission angle of the conical structure is independent of the associated particle pT, which is expected for Mach cone emission but not for Čerenkov radiation. Support for the primary hypothesis would provide evidence for the formation of Mach cones in the QGP. This work differs from prior studies by utilizing three-particle correlations to differentiate between different mechanisms that could explain the away-side broadening observed in heavy-ion collisions.

Methodological Details
The study analyzed data from the STAR time projection chamber for pp, d+Au, and Au+Au collisions at a center-of-mass energy of 200 GeV per nucleon-nucleon pair. The analysis focused on three-particle azimuthal correlations, using a trigger particle with 3 < pT < 4 GeV/c and two associated particles with 1 < pT < 2 GeV/c. The data included pp, d+Au, and Au+Au collisions. The analysis method, described in detail in reference 9, involved the subtraction of combinatorial backgrounds to isolate the genuine three-particle correlation signal. The backgrounds were categorized into hard-soft and soft-soft components. The hard-soft background, resulting from correlations between the trigger particle and one associated particle, was constructed from the two-particle jet-like correlation (J2) folded with the normalized two-particle background (Binc2), which included flow modulation. The soft-soft background, arising from correlations between the two associated particles, was obtained from mixed events. The trigger flow was accounted for using mixed events. The total background was calculated as J2 ⊗ αBinc2 + βα2(Binc3 + Binc,TF3). The normalization α2 corrects for the multiplicity bias. The factor β accounts for the effect of non-Poisson multiplicity distributions. The v2 and v4 values were obtained from reaction plane and 4-particle cumulant methods. The study examined the centrality dependence of the three-particle correlation signals and the dependence of the off-diagonal peak angle on the associated particle pT and centrality. The major sources of systematic error were the elliptic flow measurement and the normalization. The study used the reaction plane and 4-particle cumulant v2 as the upper and lower bounds to estimate the systematic uncertainty of the v2 subtraction. The effect of the normalization window was also studied.

Procedures Architectures
The analysis utilized data from the STAR detector's time projection chamber. The core of the analysis was the three-particle correlation function, which measured the azimuthal angle differences between the trigger particle and the two associated particles. The raw three-particle azimuthal distribution was analyzed in terms of ΔφaT = φa − φT and ΔφbT = φb − φT, where φT, φa, and φb are the azimuthal angles of the trigger particle and the two associated particles, respectively. The analysis involved subtracting combinatorial backgrounds to extract the genuine three-particle correlation signal. The hard-soft background was constructed by folding the two-particle jet-like correlation (J2) with the normalized two-particle background (Binc2), which incorporated flow modulation. The soft-soft background was derived from mixed events. The flow between the two associated particles independent of the trigger particle was accounted for in the soft-soft term. The trigger flow was added in triplet-wise from mixed events. The total background was then calculated. The normalization α2 corrected for the multiplicity bias. The factor β accounted for the effect of non-Poisson multiplicity distributions. The v2 and v4 values were obtained from the reaction plane and 4-particle cumulant methods. The analysis involved the use of mixed events to construct backgrounds and the application of normalization factors to account for biases. The analysis also included systematic checks, such as varying the v2 method and the normalization region. The software versions are not specified. The analysis relied on the STAR detector's data acquisition and analysis framework.

Key Results
The study found that the pp and d+Au collisions showed similar results, with peaks at the near-side (0,0), the away-side (π,π), and two cases of one particle on the near-side and the other on the away-side (0,π) and (π,0) in the background-subtracted three-particle correlation signals (Figure 2). The away-side peak displayed diagonal elongation, consistent with kT broadening. In central Au+Au collisions, additional on-diagonal broadening was observed, potentially due to deflected jets. More central Au+Au collisions displayed an off-diagonal structure at approximately π ± 1.45 radians, consistent with conical emission. This structure increased in magnitude with centrality and was prominent in the high-statistics top 12% central data (Figure 2). The average signal strengths in different regions were analyzed, with the off-diagonal signals increasing with centrality and significantly deviating from zero in central Au+Au collisions (Figure 3, left). The off-diagonal peak angle was consistent with remaining constant as a function of associated particle pT (Figure 5, left) and centrality (Figure 5, right). The off-diagonal peak angle was found to be 1.45 radians from π. The study found that the emission angle is consistent with remaining constant as a function of centrality for mid-central and central Au+Au collisions, with a value of 1.46 radians.

Interpretation Implications
The observation of an off-diagonal structure in the three-particle correlations in central Au+Au collisions, along with the lack of dependence of the emission angle on the associated particle pT, supports the hypothesis of Mach cone emission. This suggests the formation of Mach cones in the QGP created in heavy-ion collisions. The findings provide evidence for the existence of a shock wave in the QGP. The results support the idea that the QGP behaves like a fluid, and the Mach cone is a consequence of the energy loss of a high-pT parton traversing the medium. The study's findings contribute to the understanding of the QGP's properties and its behavior under extreme conditions. The lack of pT dependence of the emission angle is consistent with the Mach cone model, which predicts a fixed emission angle, while the Čerenkov radiation model predicts a decreasing emission angle with increasing associated particle pT. The results suggest the potential to use three-particle correlations as a tool to probe the QGP.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation is the systematic uncertainty associated with the background subtraction and the flow corrections. The study acknowledges that the elliptic flow measurement and the normalization are the major sources of systematic error. The use of different methods for v2 measurement (reaction plane and 4-particle cumulant) provides an estimate of the systematic uncertainty. The study does not provide details on the specific values of the systematic uncertainties. The study does not report the random seed or specific software versions used. The study does not provide information about the number of events analyzed for each collision system. The study does not provide details on the specific centrality selection criteria used. The study focuses on a specific pT range for the trigger and associated particles, which may limit the generalizability of the findings. The study does not address the potential impact of other effects, such as jet quenching, on the three-particle correlations.

Claims
[{"description": "Three-particle azimuthal correlations in central Au+Au collisions exhibit an off-diagonal structure.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 2 shows an off-diagonal structure in the background-subtracted three-particle correlations for central Au+Au collisions.", "contradicting_evidence": "The pp and d+Au collisions do not show the off-diagonal structure.", "implications": "This structure is consistent with conical emission, potentially indicating the presence of Mach cones."}, {"description": "The off-diagonal peak angle in central Au+Au collisions is approximately 1.45 radians from π.", "supporting_evidence": "The off-diagonal signals are located at about π ± 1.45 radians (Figure 3, left).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This angle is consistent with the expected emission angle for Mach cones."}, {"description": "The emission angle of the off-diagonal peak is independent of the associated particle pT.", "supporting_evidence": "The angle is consistent with constant as a function of associated particle pT (Figure 5, left).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This observation supports the Mach cone emission model and disfavors the Čerenkov radiation model."}, {"description": "The emission angle of the off-diagonal peak is independent of centrality for mid-central and central Au+Au collisions.", "supporting_evidence": "The angle is consistent with remaining constant as a function of centrality for mid-central and central Au+Au collisions (Figure 5, right).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This further supports the Mach cone emission model."}]

Data Code Availability
Data and code availability are not specified.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The signal is robust with respect to variations in the v2 measurement method (reaction plane and 4-particle cumulant) (Figure 6). The signal is also robust with respect to changes in the normalization window.

Ethical Considerations
Ethical considerations are not discussed.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows the background-subtracted 3-particle correlations for pp, d+Au, and Au+Au collisions, demonstrating the off-diagonal structure in central Au+Au. Figure 3 (left) shows the centrality dependence of the average signal strengths, highlighting the increase of the off-diagonal signals with centrality. Figure 5 (left) shows the dependence of the emission angle on the associated particle pT, and Figure 5 (right) shows the dependence of the emission angle on centrality, both supporting the conclusion of Mach cone emission. These figures are critical for illustrating the main findings.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the use of three-particle azimuthal correlations to identify a conical emission pattern in central Au+Au collisions, which is a potential signature of Mach cones in the QGP.

(2) The strongest evidence comes from the observation of an off-diagonal structure in the three-particle correlations in central Au+Au collisions (Figure 2) and the lack of dependence of the emission angle on the associated particle pT (Figure 5, left), which supports the Mach cone hypothesis.

(3) The primary limitation is the systematic uncertainty associated with the background subtraction and flow corrections. Future work could focus on improving the precision of these corrections and exploring the dependence of the conical emission on other parameters to further validate the Mach cone hypothesis.