Executive Summary
This paper introduces a framework for three-dimensional (3D) topological valley photonics, expanding upon the existing two-dimensional (2D) valley photonics. The study theoretically and experimentally develops a 3D photonic crystal with a complete photonic bandgap and vectorial valley contrasting physics. Unlike 2D systems, the 3D model features triple pairs of valleys characterized by valley Chern vectors, enabling the creation of vectorial bulk valley vortices and canalized chiral valley surface states. The research demonstrates the vectorial nature of the 3D valley states and highlights their potential for 3D waveguiding, directional radiation, and imaging. The experimental setup involves a 3D photonic crystal composed of perfect electric conductor (PEC) spheres and rods. Measurements, including pump-probe techniques and far-field radiation patterns, confirm the existence of vectorial valley states and chiral surface states. Key findings include the observation of the right-hand-thumb rule relating the direction of valley Chern vectors and the propagation loops of valley surface states. The study shows that the 3D VPC can support chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces, unlike existing 3D topological photonic insulators. The main limitation is that the concept was demonstrated at lower frequencies. The work provides a new approach to manipulate electromagnetic waves and may inspire innovative 3D topological photonic devices.

Research Context
Valley photonics, which utilizes the valley degree of freedom to manipulate electromagnetic waves, has shown significant progress in 2D systems. However, these 2D systems are limited by out-of-plane losses and planar geometries. Existing topological photonic insulators in 3D can only support topological surface states on certain surfaces. This work addresses the limitations of 2D valley photonics by developing a 3D framework with a complete photonic bandgap. Prior work includes the use of valleys to manipulate electrons in 2D materials and the study of valley edge states protected by the valley Chern number. The current work differs from prior research by introducing a 3D VPC that supports chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces, providing full confinement and control of light.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to extend valley photonics into three dimensions to overcome the limitations of 2D systems. The primary hypothesis is that a 3D topological valley photonic crystal (VPC) can be developed with a complete photonic bandgap and vectorial valley contrasting physics. This is tested by examining the band structure and the Berry curvature, and by selectively exciting and observing chiral Bloch modes. The study predicts that the 3D VPC will exhibit triple pairs of valleys characterized by valley Chern vectors, enabling the creation of vectorial bulk valley vortices and canalized chiral valley surface states. The study also hypothesizes that the direction of valley Chern vectors and the circulating propagation direction of the valley surface states are governed by the right-hand-thumb rule. The study differs from prior work by exploring a 3D VPC that supports chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces and provides full confinement of light and control of the flow of light.

Methodological Details
The study employs a combination of theoretical modeling and experimental validation. The 3D VPC is designed with a lattice constant of a = 20 mm. The lattice vectors are a1 = (a/2, a/2, 0), a2 = (0, a/2, a/2), and a3 = (a/2, 0, a/2). The photonic crystal is a diamond-like structure with PEC spheres and rods. The diameters of the spheres are D1 and D2, and the diameters of the rods are B1 = 2.4 mm and B2 = 1.2 mm. The band structure is calculated using finite-element simulations. The experimental setup involves a vectorial chiral source array with four sources positioned at (0, 0, 0), (−a/2, −a/2, 0), (−a/2, 0, −a/2), and (0, −a/2, −a/2). The relative phase delay of each source is set to (0, π/2, π, 3π/2) for Wy− and (0, −π/2, −π, −3π/2) for Wy+. The experimental characterization includes measuring the outcoupling fields and far-field radiation patterns. The surface transmission is measured, and the field distribution is mapped. The surface dispersion is also measured. The study uses the k · p method to obtain the effective Hamiltonian near each valley. The valley Chern vector (VCV) is calculated by integrating the Berry curvature around each valley. The general boundary condition is ˆ = M. The key parameters to modify the boundary condition are h and D3. The measured transmission and field distribution are analyzed to verify the existence of surface states. The study does not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilizes a 3D photonic crystal composed of PEC spheres and rods arranged in a diamond-like lattice. The lattice constant is a = 20 mm. The unit cell contains two spheres with diameters D1 and D2, connected by rods with diameters B1 = 2.4 mm and B2 = 1.2 mm. The band structure is simulated with finite-element methods. The vectorial chiral source array consists of four sources with specific phase delays to selectively excite valley states. The relative positions of the sources are (0, 0, 0), (−a/2, −a/2, 0), (−a/2, 0, −a/2), and (0, −a/2, −a/2). The phase delays are (0, π/2, π, 3π/2) for Wy− and (0, −π/2, −π, −3π/2) for Wy+. The experimental setup includes a metallic plate covering the (001) surface, with a hole interval of a/2. The key parameters to modify the boundary condition are the distance between the plate and the outmost metallic sphere, h = 6.25 mm, and the diameter of the outmost metallic sphere, D3 = 4 mm. The study uses the k · p method to derive the effective Hamiltonian. The analysis involves calculating the valley Chern vector (VCV) and the surface dispersion. The novelty lies in the development of a 3D VPC with a complete photonic bandgap that supports chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces, unlike existing 3D topological photonic insulators.

Key Results
The study demonstrates the existence of a 3D VPC with vectorial valley contrasting physics. The band structure of the 3D VPC is shown in Figure 1(b). The six valleys are located at (±π/a, 2π/a, 0), (0, ±π/a, 2π/a), and (2π/a, 0, ±π/a) for Wx±, Wy±, and Wz±, respectively. The simulated eigenstates on the (001) surface for the first band at Wz± valleys show vortex profiles with opposite chirality (Figure 1(d)). The Berry curvature at Wz± verifies the vectorial valley-contrasting physics (Figure 1(e)). The measured outcoupling fields at 13.8 GHz exhibit different directions: −32.9° (+32.9°) for clockwise (counterclockwise) phase winding, corresponding to Wy− (Wy+), and 0° for no phase winding, corresponding to X (Figure 2(d)). The measured outcoupling far-field radiation patterns are shown in Figure 2(e). The valley Chern vector (VCV) is calculated to be (±1/2, 0, 0), (0, ±1/2, 0), and (0, 0, ±1/2) for Wx±, Wy±, and Wz± valleys, respectively. The normalized measured transmission maintains high within the complete photonic bandgap (Figure 3(e)). The measured field distribution at 14.6 GHz is shown in Figure 3(f). The measured and simulated surface dispersion around Wx− valley is shown in Figure 3(g). The measured and simulated isofrequency contour of surface dispersion at 14.6 GHz is shown in Figure 3(h). The surface states smoothly pass through the sharp corner with high transmission (Figure 4(c)).

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the concept of 3D topological valley photonics, providing a framework to manipulate electromagnetic waves in three dimensions. The observation of vectorial valley states and chiral surface states suggests that the 3D VPC can be used for 3D waveguiding, directional radiation, and imaging. The right-hand-thumb rule, which relates the direction of VCVs and the propagation loops of valley surface states, provides a deeper understanding of the underlying physics. The canalization behavior of the surface states suggests potential applications in imaging and lensing. The results extend the understanding of topological photonics by demonstrating the possibility of robust chiral surface states on all sample surfaces, which is not possible in existing 3D topological photonic insulators. The study suggests that the orbital moments carried by the 3D valley states can be used to control the angular momentum of light.

Contradictions Limitations
The study is limited by the demonstration at lower frequencies. The lack of details on the specific materials used for the PEC spheres and rods is a limitation. The study does not provide information on the experimental error or uncertainty. The study does not mention the random seed used for simulations. The study does not provide details on the train/test split. The study does not provide information on the demographics of the participants. The study does not discuss any potential conflicts with prior literature. The study does not discuss the external validity of the findings. The study assumes that the boundary condition can be satisfied by covering the (001) surface with a metallic plate and tuning the diameter of the outmost metallic sphere, D3, and the distance between the plate and the outmost metallic sphere, h. The study does not discuss the potential for intervalley scattering.

Claims
[{"description": "The 3D VPC exhibits triple pairs of valleys characterized by valley Chern vectors.", "supporting_evidence": "The 3D model involves triple pairs of valleys at the corners of the 3D BZ, which are differentiated by band geometric quantities along distinct directions.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This feature enables the creation of vectorial bulk valley vortices and canalized chiral valley surface states, which are not possible in 2D systems."}, {"description": "The direction of the valley Chern vectors and the circulating propagation direction of the valley surface states are governed by the right-hand-thumb rule.", "supporting_evidence": "The right-hand-thumb rule is demonstrated by the observation that the direction of the VCVs and the circulating direction of the valley surface states are related. The right-hand-thumb points to the direction of VCVs, and the curling fingers point to the circulating direction of the valley surface states (Figure 4(a)).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This rule provides a fundamental understanding of the relationship between the bulk properties and the behavior of the surface states, and it applies to all sample surfaces."}, {"description": "The 3D VPC supports chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces.", "supporting_evidence": "The fabricated sample can support the chiral valley surface states on all (100), (010), and (001) surfaces, with the propagation direction locked to each valley. For instance, the surface states at Wx− valley could propagate along +y direction on the (001) surface, and subsequently along −z direction on the (010) surface, without experiencing intervalley scattering.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This is unlike existing 3D topological photonic insulators, which can only support topological surface states on certain surfaces, offering new possibilities for device design."}, {"description": "The 3D VPC enables selective excitation of vectorial valley states.", "supporting_evidence": "The vectorial chiral source array is configured with four sources with the relative positions at (0, 0, 0), (−a/2, −a/2, 0), (−a/2, 0, −a/2), and (0, −a/2, −a/2). The relative phase delay of each source is set to (0, π/2, π, 3π/2) for Wy− and (0, −π/2, −π, −3π/2) for Wy+, to form a clockwise or counterclockwise phase winding.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This enables the control of the angular momentum of light and the creation of narrow-beam antennae."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the 3D VPC characterized by vectorial Berry curvatures. Figure 1(b) shows the band structure of the 3D VPC. Figure 2 illustrates the selective excitation of vectorial valley states. Figure 3 shows the observation of the canalized chiral valley surface states. Figure 4 illustrates the right-hand-thumb rule relating the robust chiral valley surface states with the VCVs. These figures are critical for understanding the experimental setup, the band structure, the selective excitation of the valley states, the observation of the canalized chiral valley surface states, and the right-hand-thumb rule.

Three Takeaways
(1) This work introduces a 3D topological valley photonics framework, which extends the concept of valley photonics into three dimensions by utilizing triple pairs of valleys characterized by valley Chern vectors. (2) The study provides strong evidence for the existence of vectorial valley states and chiral surface states, demonstrating the right-hand-thumb rule, and showing that the 3D VPC supports chiral valley surface states on all sample surfaces. The measured outcoupling fields at 13.8 GHz exhibit different directions: −32.9° (+32.9°) for clockwise (counterclockwise) phase winding, corresponding to Wy− (Wy+). (3) The primary limitation is that the concept was demonstrated at lower frequencies. Future work could focus on extending this concept to higher frequencies, including terahertz and optical ranges, to enable new applications in 3D topological photonic devices.