Executive Summary
This paper presents a method for stabilizing functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) for scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and current imaging tunneling spectroscopy (CITS) measurements. The authors incorporated functionalized MWCNTs into a few-layer graphene (FLG)-nanotube composite to mitigate sample instability issues that have hindered the application of STM to functionalized nanotubes. This approach enabled energy-resolved tunneling conductance mapping, revealing information on doping levels, charge transfer between the nanotubes and functional groups, and the influence of crystallographic orientation on defect creation and functionalization. The study found that acid oxidation and subsequent functionalization preferentially occurs along the zigzag crystallographic direction in large-diameter MWCNTs. Key findings include the observation of p-doping in the nanotubes and the identification of regions with low conductance attributed to defective and/or intensely functionalized areas. The study's novelty lies in the use of a CNT-FLG composite to stabilize functionalized nanotubes for STM/CITS, allowing for atomic-resolution imaging and energy-resolved mapping. This work is significant because it provides a method to study the electronic properties of functionalized CNTs at the nanoscale, which is crucial for their applications in sensors, composite materials, and other areas. A major limitation is the unknown electronic structure of the surface in heavily functionalized regions, where the sp2 carbon lattice is damaged.

Research Context
The study addresses the challenge of imaging functionalized carbon nanotubes (CNTs) with scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). Prior research has established the potential of STM and CITS for mapping the electronic properties of CNTs, but sample instability, due to the presence of functional groups weakening the contact with the substrate, has limited the technique's application. Previous methods to immobilize nanotubes, such as chemical bonding, have limitations, including potential perturbation of the tube's electronic structure. This work builds on prior studies that have used STM to study CNTs and the relation between CNT wrapping direction and band structure, and mapping individual wavefunctions of CNTs. The study aims to overcome the limitations of previous approaches by developing a stable platform for STM/CITS measurements on functionalized CNTs.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to map the surface of functionalized carbon nanotubes with atomic precision using STM, overcoming the sample instability issues that have hindered this application. The primary hypothesis is that incorporating functionalized MWCNTs into a FLG-nanotube composite will stabilize the nanotubes sufficiently to allow for reproducible STM and CITS measurements. The study predicts that this method will enable the acquisition of energy-resolved tunneling conductance maps, revealing information on the level of doping, charge transfer between the tube and functional groups, and the dependence of defect creation or functionalization on crystallographic orientation. The alternative hypothesis is that the composite will not sufficiently stabilize the nanotubes, resulting in unstable measurements and an inability to obtain clear conductance maps. Another alternative is that the composite will alter the electronic properties of the nanotubes, making it difficult to interpret the results. The study differs from prior work by using a CNT-FLG composite to stabilize the nanotubes, which allows for STM/CITS measurements without the need for chemical bonding that could perturb the tube's electronic structure.

Methodological Details
The study employed STM and CITS to investigate functionalized MWCNTs. The MWCNTs were prepared by chemical vapor deposition of acetylene over an alumina-supported Co/Fe catalyst. Functionalization involved a three-step process: treatment in H2SO4/HNO3 mixture, followed by stirring in SOCl2, and finally, stirring in diaminopropane. This process attached –OH and –COOH groups, which were transformed into –COCl groups, and then cross-linked with diaminopropane. The functionalized MWCNTs were incorporated into a buckypaper composite with exfoliated graphite in isopropyl alcohol, which was then filtered through a polycarbonate membrane. STM imaging was performed using a Multimode III SPM (Veeco) in CITS mode. The STS data was extracted from the raw CITS files and processed using Scilab. The STM images and STS curves were obtained using a Pt/Ir STM probe. Atomic resolution images on the nanotubes were acquired using a 500 pA tunneling current and 100 mV tip – sample bias voltage. STM topography and CITS images were acquired using a 300 pA tunneling current and 300 mV bias voltage. TEM measurements were performed using a Philips CM20 microscope operated at 200 keV. The study did not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. Ethical considerations, including IRB approval and informed consent, were not reported.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized a CNT-FLG composite to stabilize functionalized MWCNTs for STM and CITS measurements. The functionalized MWCNTs were mixed with exfoliated graphite in isopropyl alcohol and ultrasonically stirred to create a suspension. This suspension was then filtered through a polycarbonate membrane to form a buckypaper. The buckypaper was cut into pieces and placed on the STM sample holder, with electrical contact made using carbon colloid paste. The STM measurements were performed using a Multimode III SPM (Veeco) in CITS mode. The STM probe was a mechanically cut Pt/Ir (80:20) wire. The STM tip was characterized by obtaining reproducible STS spectra and atomic resolution on graphite. The CITS mode allowed for the simultaneous acquisition of STM images and STS curves. The STS data, representing the tunneling current as a function of voltage, was extracted from the raw CITS files and processed using Scilab. The STM images and STS curves were obtained using the same Pt/Ir STM probe. The study used a three-step functionalization process, including acid treatment, SOCl2 treatment, and diaminopropane treatment. The novelty of the approach lies in the use of a CNT-FLG composite to provide a stable platform for STM/CITS measurements on functionalized CNTs, which is not found in the literature.

Key Results
The study successfully obtained STM and CITS measurements on functionalized MWCNTs using the CNT-FLG composite. The STM images revealed a rough surface topography, with functional groups appearing as protrusions. The dI/dV maps showed regions of high and low conductance. The high conductance regions exhibited graphitic-like behavior, while the low conductance regions were attributed to defective and/or intensely functionalized areas. The dI/dV curves from these regions had a much less well-defined minimum and were highly asymmetrical. The study found that the nanotubes were p-doped, with a Fermi level shift of around 0.25 eV in the mostly functional group-free regions. The map of the LDOS minimum correlated with the conductance map, showing the places of asymmetric dI/dV curves attributed to functionalized sites. The study also found that the functionalized regions followed the zigzag direction along the nanotube circumference. The Raman spectra showed an increase in the D peak intensity relative to the G peak (ID/IG), indicating an increase in the tube surface defect concentration. The ATR-IR spectra showed peaks corresponding to –OH and –COOH groups in both the pristine and functionalized samples and a signature of –NH in the functionalized sample. The study did not report any baseline comparisons or effect sizes. The p-doping was attributed to acid molecule adsorption and functionalization by electron acceptors. The study did not report any unexpected or negative results.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that the CNT-FLG composite provides a stable platform for STM/CITS measurements on functionalized MWCNTs. The observation of different conductance regions on the dI/dV maps suggests that the functionalization process alters the electronic structure of the nanotubes. The p-doping observed in the nanotubes is attributed to acid molecule adsorption and the presence of electron-accepting functional groups. The preferential functionalization along the zigzag direction implies that oxidation reactions on CNTs can favor a specific crystallographic direction. The study provides experimental evidence that oxidation reactions on CNTs can prefer a specific crystallographic direction. The results suggest that the functionalization process leads to a destruction of the sp2 π electron lattice in the functionalized regions. The study's findings contribute to a better understanding of the electronic properties of functionalized CNTs and their potential applications in sensing and composite materials.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the unknown electronic structure of the surface in heavily functionalized regions, where the sp2 carbon lattice is heavily damaged and the electronic structure of the surface is unknown. The interpretation of the LDOS minimum map is not straightforward in the low conductance regions. The study does not provide information on the sample's homogeneity, which could affect the interpretation of the results. The study does not report the random seed used for the experiment or the train/test split. The study does not mention the demographics of the sample. The study's conclusions are limited to the specific functionalization process and the type of MWCNTs used. The study acknowledges that the acid treatment is milder than in other studies. The study does not address the potential impact of the STM tip on the functionalized nanotubes. The study does not discuss the external validity of the findings.

Claims
[{"description": "Incorporating functionalized MWCNTs into a FLG-nanotube composite enables stable STM and CITS measurements.", "supporting_evidence": "STM images and dI/dV maps were successfully obtained on functionalized MWCNTs using the CNT-FLG composite (Figure 4). The composite provided a stable platform for reproducible measurements.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This method allows for the study of the electronic properties of functionalized CNTs at the nanoscale, which is crucial for their applications in sensors, composite materials, and other areas."}, {"description": "Acid oxidation and subsequent functionalization preferentially occurs along the zigzag crystallographic direction in large-diameter MWCNTs.", "supporting_evidence": "The functionalized regions, as revealed by STM and conductance maps, followed the zigzag direction along the nanotube circumference (Figure 5, 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This finding provides insights into the mechanism of functionalization and its dependence on crystallographic orientation, which can be used to control the properties of functionalized CNTs."}, {"description": "The nanotubes exhibit p-doping due to acid molecule adsorption and the presence of electron-accepting functional groups.", "supporting_evidence": "The dI/dV maps showed a shift in the LDOS minimum, indicating p-doping. The Fermi level shift was around 0.25 eV in the mostly functional group-free regions (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This understanding of the doping mechanism is important for tailoring the electronic properties of CNTs for specific applications."}, {"description": "Regions with low conductance in the dI/dV maps are attributed to defective and/or intensely functionalized areas.", "supporting_evidence": "The dI/dV curves in the low conductance regions had a much less well-defined minimum and were highly asymmetrical. These regions correlated with protrusions on the surface (Figure 4, 5, 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This finding provides a method to identify and characterize functionalized regions on CNTs, which is critical for understanding the impact of functionalization on the electronic properties of CNTs."}]

Data Code Availability
The study does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study does not present any robustness or ablation analyses.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 4 presents STM images and tunneling conductance maps of functionalized nanotubes, illustrating the different conductance of the graphite support and the nanotubes. Figure 5 shows zoomed-in, lattice-resolved images and tunneling conductance maps of a functionalized CNT, demonstrating the correlation between functionalized regions and low conductance areas. Figure 6 shows the tunneling conductance maps of the nanotube region, with selected dI/dV curves and the map of the LDOS minimum. These figures are critical for visualizing the results and supporting the main claims of the study.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of a CNT-FLG composite that enables stable STM and CITS measurements on functionalized MWCNTs, overcoming the limitations of previous methods. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the successful acquisition of STM and CITS measurements, which revealed the preferential functionalization along the zigzag direction and the p-doping in the nanotubes, as shown in Figures 4, 5, and 6. (3) The primary limitation is the unknown electronic structure of the surface in heavily functionalized regions, which presents an open problem for future research, and further investigation is needed to fully understand the impact of functionalization on the electronic properties of CNTs.