Executive Summary
This paper establishes a phenomenological theory for the anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in crystalline materials, specifically focusing on the effect of nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling. The authors demonstrate, through symmetry analysis, that a wide range of magnetic point groups (MPGs) can exhibit AHE driven by uni-axial, bi-axial, or tri-axial electric fields. This electric-field induced AHE arises from nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling and is reversible by reversing the magnetic orders. The study identifies 90 type-I and type-III MPGs that host this effect. Furthermore, first-principles calculations suggest Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ as promising candidate materials for experimental verification. The work highlights the potential of nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling in creating novel transport phenomena and offers alternative avenues for probing magnetic orders, which is of potential value in spintronics. Key findings include the identification of specific MPGs that enable electric-field driven AHE and the prediction of significant anomalous Hall conductivities in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ under applied electric fields. The primary limitation is the focus on intrinsic mechanisms, neglecting extrinsic mechanisms such as those related to scattering. The study's significance lies in its theoretical framework and the identification of potential materials for exploring and manipulating magnetic orders using electric fields.

Research Context
The anomalous Hall effect (AHE) is a well-known transport phenomenon that is typically observed in ferromagnets or antiferromagnets with specific magnetic configurations. Recent research has explored electric-field induced AHE via linear magnetoelectric coupling. However, the potential for AHE originating from nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling has remained largely unexplored. Prior work lacks a comprehensive theoretical framework that systematically explores the AHE in various MPGs under the influence of electric fields. This paper addresses this gap by providing a group-theoretical approach to establish a phenomenological theory for spontaneous and electric-field driven AHE in crystalline materials. The study builds on the understanding of magnetoelectric coupling and its potential to induce magnetization, offering a novel perspective on manipulating AHE.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: Can nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling induce an anomalous Hall effect in crystalline materials, and if so, what are the material properties and electric field configurations that facilitate this effect?

The primary hypothesis is that a significant number of magnetic point groups (MPGs) will exhibit an electric-field driven AHE due to nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling. This hypothesis is supported by the prediction that the anomalous Hall conductivity can be induced by applying uni-axial, bi-axial, or tri-axial electric fields, and that this effect is reversible by reversing the magnetic orders. The alternative hypothesis is that the effect is limited to a few specific MPGs or that the induced conductivity is negligibly small. The study aims to demonstrate that the AHE can be induced by electric fields via nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling, which differs from previous studies that primarily focused on AHE in ferromagnets or linear magnetoelectric coupling. The research also aims to identify candidate materials where this effect can be observed and quantified.

Methodological Details
The study employs a group-theoretical approach to establish a phenomenological theory for the anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in crystalline materials. The methodology involves symmetry analysis to determine the relationship between the magnetic point groups (MPGs) and the AHE. The authors analyze the 122 MPGs, focusing on type-I and type-III MPGs, and derive the effective magnetic fields for each MPG. The analysis is detailed in Supplementary Note 2. This analysis determines which MPGs allow for spontaneous or electric-field driven AHE. The study then uses first-principles calculations to investigate specific materials. The authors select Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ as candidate materials. The first-principles calculations are used to compute the anomalous Hall conductivities in these materials under applied electric fields. The calculations are performed to verify the theoretical predictions and to quantify the magnitude of the AHE. The study uses the MAGNDATA database to identify materials belonging to the identified MPGs. The study does not mention a pre-registration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study focuses on the intrinsic mechanism of AHE. The study uses the Levi-Civita symbol ϵαβγ to imply the anti-symmetric nature of the anomalous Hall conductivity, that is, σαβ = −σβα. The Hall vector M ≡(Mx, My, Mz) ≡(σzy, σxz, σyx) is defined.

Procedures Architectures
The study's primary methodology involves a group-theoretical analysis and first-principles calculations. The group-theoretical approach is used to establish a phenomenological theory for the AHE. The authors analyze the symmetry properties of the 122 MPGs. The analysis identifies which MPGs allow for spontaneous or electric-field driven AHE. The phenomenological theory is based on the expansion of the effective magnetic field (Bαeff) with respect to the electric field. The expansion includes terms for linear, second-order, and third-order magnetoelectric coupling. The analytical form of Bαeff is governed by symmetry. The effective magnetic fields for the 90 type-I and type-III MPGs are derived and summarized in Table I and Supplementary Tables 9, 10, and 11. The first-principles calculations are performed to investigate the electric-field driven AHE in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂. The authors do not provide details on the specific first-principles calculation software or the computational parameters used. The crystal and magnetic structures of Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ are sketched in Fig. 1. The anomalous Hall conductivities in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ are computed as a function of chemical potential, as shown in Figs. 2(a)-(h). The study does not detail the specific computational methods or software versions used for the first-principles calculations. The novelty lies in the application of the phenomenological theory and the identification of materials exhibiting electric-field driven AHE via nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling.

Key Results
The study's key results include the establishment of a phenomenological theory for the anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in magnets, which is driven by electric fields via nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling. The symmetry analysis reveals that 90 type-I and type-III magnetic point groups (MPGs) host this effect, as summarized in Table I. For example, the ¯6m2.1 MPG enables σzy, σxz, and σyx, where σzy responds to E²xEz or EyEz, σxz responds to ExEz, and σyx responds to E³x. The study suggests Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ as candidate materials for experimental verification. First-principles calculations show that in Cr₂O₃, the σzy, σxz, and σyx components can be larger than 100 S/cm when driven by Ex, Ey, or Ez electric fields (magnitude of 4 MV/cm) via first-order response. In CoF₂, for Ex = Ez = 2√2 MV/cm and Ey = Ez = 2√2 MV/cm, σzy and σxz can reach 10 S/cm, while an electric field of Ex = 4 MV/cm or Ey = 4 MV/cm can yield σyx being larger than 200 S/cm. The study also found that reversing the magnetic order parameter in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ reverses the sign of the anomalous Hall conductivities. The results are presented in Figs. 2(a)-(h). The study also notes that in 10 MPGs, the σyx conductivity can be quenched under specific bi-axial or tri-axial electric field conditions, as summarized in Supplementary Table 12. The study provides quantitative results for the anomalous Hall conductivity in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ under applied electric fields, with the values exceeding 100 S/cm in some cases.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling can induce an anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in crystalline materials. The study's results suggest that the AHE can be controlled by applying electric fields, offering a new avenue for manipulating magnetic orders. The identification of 90 type-I and type-III MPGs that exhibit this effect broadens the scope of materials that can be used for spintronics applications. The study implies that the AHE can be reversed by reversing the magnetic order parameter, which is of practical importance for data storage and retrieval. The proposed mechanism is based on the symmetry analysis and the expansion of the effective magnetic field with respect to the electric field. The scope condition is that the materials must belong to the identified MPGs. The understanding shifts from the traditional focus on ferromagnets and linear magnetoelectric coupling to a broader range of materials and electric field configurations.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is its focus on intrinsic mechanisms, neglecting extrinsic mechanisms such as those related to scattering. The study does not discuss the effects of temperature or other external factors on the AHE. The lack of detailed information on the first-principles calculations, such as the specific software and computational parameters used, limits the reproducibility of the results. The study does not provide information on the experimental verification of the theoretical predictions. The external validity of the study is limited by the fact that the theoretical predictions are based on idealized conditions. The study does not address the potential for conflicts with prior literature, although it builds upon existing knowledge of AHE and magnetoelectric coupling. The study does not provide details on the experimental feasibility of applying the required electric fields to the materials. The study does not address the potential for subgroup effects or any variations in the AHE based on material composition or crystal structure imperfections. The absence of details on the experimental setup and measurement techniques poses a key threat to the inference.

Claims
[{"description": "Nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling can induce an anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in a wide range of magnetic point groups (MPGs).", "supporting_evidence": "The symmetry analysis demonstrates that 90 type-I and type-III MPGs exhibit an AHE driven by uni-axial, bi-axial, or tri-axial electric fields, as summarized in Table I.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study focuses on intrinsic mechanisms and does not consider the influence of extrinsic factors such as scattering, which could potentially diminish the AHE.", "implications": "This finding suggests that the AHE can be engineered in a broader range of materials than previously considered, offering new possibilities for spintronics applications."}, {"description": "The electric-field driven anomalous Hall conductivities in magnets are reversible by reversing the magnetic orders.", "supporting_evidence": "The first-principles calculations confirm that reversing the magnetic order parameter in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ reverses the sign of the anomalous Hall conductivities, as shown in Figs. 2(a)-(h).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not address potential limitations in the reversibility due to material imperfections or experimental conditions.", "implications": "This reversibility is crucial for data storage and retrieval applications, as it allows for the control of the AHE via magnetic order manipulation."}, {"description": "Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ are promising candidate materials for experimentally observing electric-field driven AHE.", "supporting_evidence": "First-principles calculations predict significant anomalous Hall conductivities in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ under applied electric fields. In Cr₂O₃, σzy, σxz, and σyx can be larger than 100 S/cm. In CoF₂, σzy and σxz can reach 10 S/cm, and σyx can be larger than 200 S/cm, as shown in Figs. 2(a)-(h).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide experimental validation of these predictions, and the feasibility of applying the required electric fields is not discussed.", "implications": "These materials offer potential platforms for experimentally verifying the theoretical predictions and exploring the AHE in a controlled manner."}, {"description": "The anomalous Hall conductivity can be driven by uni-axial, bi-axial, or tri-axial electric fields.", "supporting_evidence": "The phenomenological theory and the symmetry analysis show that the AHE can be induced by applying uni-axial, bi-axial, or tri-axial electric fields. Table I provides a comprehensive overview of the electric field configurations that drive the AHE in different MPGs.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not address the practical challenges of applying these electric fields in experiments.", "implications": "This finding provides a guide for designing experiments to manipulate the AHE by selecting appropriate electric field configurations."}, {"description": "The σyx conductivity can be quenched under specific bi-axial or tri-axial electric field conditions in some MPGs.", "supporting_evidence": "In 10 MPGs, the σyx conductivity can be quenched when the bi-axial or tri-axial electric field is along specific directions, as summarized in Supplementary Table 12.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide details on the experimental conditions required to achieve this quenching behavior.", "implications": "This quenching behavior could be exploited for specific applications where the control of the anomalous Hall conductivity is required."}]

Data Code Availability
The study does not provide links to data or code. The study does not mention a preregistration or any supplementary materials.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study does not include explicit robustness or ablation analyses. The study does not discuss the sensitivity of the results to the choice of computational parameters in the first-principles calculations.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not explicitly address ethical considerations, such as potential risks, mitigations, approvals, privacy/consent, or dual use.

Key Figures Tables
Table I is critical as it summarizes the anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in 90 type-I and type-III magnetic point groups (MPGs). The table uses different color codes to indicate the anomalous Hall conductivity components that occur spontaneously or are driven by electric fields. The axes are the MPGs and the anomalous Hall conductivity components (σzy, σxz, σyx). The table provides a comprehensive overview of the electric field configurations that drive the AHE in different MPGs. Figures 2(a)-(h) illustrate the electric-field driven anomalous Hall conductivities in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ as a function of chemical potential. The axes are the anomalous Hall conductivity and the chemical potential. These figures substantiate the core claims regarding the AHE in the candidate materials.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the establishment of a phenomenological theory that demonstrates the electric-field driven anomalous Hall effect (AHE) in crystalline materials via nonlinear magnetoelectric coupling. This theory identifies 90 type-I and type-III magnetic point groups (MPGs) that can host this effect, expanding the scope of materials that can be used for spintronics. (2) The strongest evidence is the first-principles calculations that predict significant anomalous Hall conductivities in Cr₂O₃ and CoF₂ under applied electric fields. In Cr₂O₃, the σzy, σxz, and σyx components can be larger than 100 S/cm, and in CoF₂, σzy and σxz can reach 10 S/cm, and σyx can be larger than 200 S/cm. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of experimental validation and the focus on intrinsic mechanisms, neglecting extrinsic factors. Future work should focus on experimental verification of the theoretical predictions and exploring the impact of extrinsic factors on the AHE. Further research could also explore the potential of these materials for spintronics applications.