Executive Summary
Words2Wheels is a framework designed to automatically generate customized driving policies for autonomous vehicles (AVs) based on natural language user commands. The core problem addressed is the limited ability of current AVs to adapt driving styles to user preferences expressed in natural language. Words2Wheels uses a Style-Customized Reward Function to generate a Style-Customized Driving Policy without needing prior driving data. The framework leverages large language models (LLMs) and a Driving Style Database to retrieve, adapt, and generalize driving styles effectively. The system's workflow involves interpreting user commands, matching them with styles from a database, generating a Style Reward, and creating a Style Policy through reinforcement learning (RL). A Statistical Evaluation module ensures alignment with user preferences. The Driving Style Database stores Style Rewards, Style Policies, and analytical data. The framework was evaluated in car-following scenarios using the HighD dataset. Key findings show that Words2Wheels outperforms existing methods in accuracy, generalization, and adaptability. For instance, in human-in-the-loop comparisons, participants judged Words2Wheels' driving style to be a better match to the user command than the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) in 72% of events. The system also demonstrated the ability to generate driving styles that align with user commands, even when no matching styles were initially available. The primary limitation is the focus on car-following scenarios; future work will expand to more complex driving scenarios. The framework's novelty lies in its automated customization of driving policies, bridging the gap between user preferences and driving behavior.

Research Context
Current autonomous vehicles often exhibit uniform driving styles, which can be a significant user experience issue. Existing approaches to customizing driving styles, such as predefined styles and data-driven methods like Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL), face limitations. Predefined styles rely on expert input, making them cumbersome and subjective. Data-driven methods struggle to obtain specific driving data, align style metrics with user preferences, and generalize to new commands. Foundation models have been explored to process user instructions, but they often fall short in adjusting the overall driving policy at the style level and can raise concerns about reliability and efficiency. Words2Wheels addresses these shortcomings by providing a framework that automatically customizes driving policies based on natural language commands, thus offering a more adaptable and user-centric approach to autonomous driving.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a system can automatically generate customized driving policies for autonomous vehicles based on natural language user commands, thereby improving user experience and adaptability. The primary hypothesis is that Words2Wheels will outperform existing methods in terms of accuracy, generalization, and adaptability in generating driving styles that align with user commands. This is tested by comparing the system's performance against the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) and evaluating its ability to generate styles that match user preferences. The alternative hypothesis is that Words2Wheels will not significantly improve driving style customization compared to existing methods. The study also explores the ability of the system to generate new driving styles when no existing styles match the user command. The outcomes that would support the hypothesis include the generation of driving policies that align with user commands, outperforming IDM in human evaluations, and successful generalization to new commands and driving scenarios. Refutation would involve the system failing to generate appropriate driving styles, performing poorly compared to IDM, or demonstrating limited generalization capabilities. The study differs from prior work by focusing on automated policy customization through a Style-Customized Reward Function and a Driving Style Database, enabling efficient retrieval, adaptation, and generalization of driving styles based on user commands, without relying on prior driving data.

Methodological Details
The study employed a methodological approach centered on the development and evaluation of the Words2Wheels framework. The study design involved the implementation of the Words2Wheels framework, which includes a Style-Customized Reward Function, a Driving Style Database, and a Statistical Evaluation module. The car-following scenario was selected as the experimental focus, utilizing the HighD dataset, which was collected by a 4K resolution camera mounted on a drone. The data extraction and kinematic model for the car-following behavior were based on FollowNet. The dataset was split, with 15% reserved as a test set for the Statistical Evaluation module. User commands were categorized into three levels based on directness (Level I: Direct, Level II: Indirect with strong hints, Level III: Indirect with mild hints). The base model used was GPT-4o-2024-08-06, with a temperature setting of 0.3 for text generation. The LLM was used for command cognition, style matching, and reward function generation. The Driving Style Database was populated with 8 initial styles, including data-driven and human-designed reward functions. Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) was used for reinforcement learning (RL) training to generate Style Policies from Style Rewards, with the Style Policy with the highest reward selected from 5 runs with different seeds. The Statistical Evaluation module was used to generate statistical data on driving behavior, including speed, acceleration, jerk, spacing, and time headway. The evaluation of driving style alignment was conducted through human-in-the-loop comparisons, where 10 volunteers with valid driving licenses were presented with 5 user commands, testing 20 events per command. The fuzzy memory function was tested with 3 experimental sets, inputting a predefined memory into the Driving Style Database and testing the system with 5 similar inputs. The study did not specify any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study adhered to ethical considerations by obtaining consent from volunteers for human-in-the-loop comparisons.

Procedures Architectures
The Words2Wheels framework comprises three core components: Automated Policy Customization, a Driving Style Database, and a Statistical Evaluation module. The Automated Policy Customization module begins with receiving a natural language user command. The LLM then selects the top *k* (k=3) relevant style rewards from the Driving Style Database using Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) principles. If a selected Style Reward has a matched semantically similar command, the system directly uses its Style Policy. Otherwise, the LLM generates *m* new reward functions based on the most relevant Style Reward. The LLM’s generation may involve logic modifications or restructuring. New Style Policies are produced via RL, with the trainings parallelized. Finally, the Statistical Evaluation module determines if the new policies outperform the temporary one. The Driving Style Database stores Style Rewards (programming codes), Style Policies (pre-trained neural networks), and analytical data (in JSON format). These are embedded as high-dimensional vectors to improve LLM retrieval efficiency. The Statistical Evaluation module generates statistical data on driving behavior using a reserved test dataset. The LLM selects the *n* (n=2) most relevant metrics and compares the policies to natural driving data. The LLM uses a Chain-of-Thought approach. The system uses GPT-4o-2024-08-06 as the base model. For generating Style Policy from Style Reward, Proximal Policy Optimization (PPO) was employed. The hardware and software versions are not specified.

Key Results
The experiments demonstrated the effectiveness of Words2Wheels in customizing driving styles. In human-in-the-loop comparisons, participants judged the driving style generated by Words2Wheels to be a better match to the user command than the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) in 72% of the 1,000 tested events (Table II). IDM was preferred in only 9.2% of the events. The system's ability to generate driving styles that align with user commands was also evaluated. When the input was "I’m going to be late for the train," the generated style exhibited higher speed, acceleration, and jerk. In contrast, when the input was "Safety first. I have plenty of time," the generated style showed greater spacing, time headway, and relative speed (Figure 6). The system was tested with 40 commands across three levels of directness (Table III). The system performed well in terms of analysis, decision-making, and generation for the vast majority of cases. The system's handling of Level I commands was slightly more accurate than for Level II and III commands, with 97.5% of Level I commands correctly interpreted. The fuzzy memory function was tested with 3 experimental sets. With the exception of one case involving "It’s snowing and visibility has decreased", all other test cases were successfully recalled (Table IV). The system demonstrated a strong ability to recognize and match fuzzy inputs to existing memories. The aggressive style showed higher speeds and greater acceleration, while the conservative style maintained a larger gap and relative speed (Figure 5).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that Words2Wheels can effectively bridge the gap between user preferences expressed in natural language and the driving behavior of autonomous vehicles. The system's ability to generate and adapt driving styles indicates a potential for enhancing user experience and improving the acceptance of AVs. The successful human-in-the-loop comparisons and the system's performance across different command levels support the idea that LLMs can be utilized to interpret user commands and generate appropriate driving policies. The results imply that the Driving Style Database and Statistical Evaluation module are critical for the system's performance. The fuzzy memory function enhances the adaptability of the driving models, enabling the system to respond effectively to a broader range of natural language instructions by recalling similar previous commands. The study's results support the use of RL and RAG techniques in the context of autonomous driving.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation is the focus on car-following scenarios, which may limit the generalizability of the findings to more complex driving environments. The study does not provide details on the specific metrics used for evaluating the alignment between driving policies and user commands, which could affect the reproducibility of the results. The study does not report the random seed used for the RL training, which could affect the reproducibility of the results. The study does not provide information about the demographics of the volunteers used in the human-in-the-loop comparisons. In a few isolated cases, the LLM’s interpretation and processing were off, such as in Case 19 and Case 26 (Table III). The study acknowledges that when acceleration and jerk values were negative, the LLM’s understanding conflicted with human intuition. The study does not address potential biases in the initial styles within the Driving Style Database. The study does not provide a detailed error analysis.

Claims
[{"description": "Words2Wheels can automatically generate customized driving policies based on natural language user commands.", "supporting_evidence": "The system's architecture includes a Style-Customized Reward Function, a Driving Style Database, and a Statistical Evaluation module, which collectively enable the system to interpret user commands and generate appropriate driving policies (Figure 1, Figure 2). The system successfully generated driving styles that aligned with user commands such as \"I'm going to be late for the train\" and \"Safety first. I have plenty of time\" (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This capability addresses a key limitation of current AVs by enabling them to adapt to user preferences expressed in natural language, potentially improving user experience and acceptance."}, {"description": "Words2Wheels outperforms the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) in aligning driving styles with user commands, as judged by human evaluators.", "supporting_evidence": "In human-in-the-loop comparisons, participants judged Words2Wheels to be a better match to the user command than IDM in 72% of the 1,000 tested events (Table II). IDM was preferred in only 9.2% of the events.", "contradicting_evidence": "In 18.8% of the tested events, both models were considered equally effective (Table II).", "implications": "This result demonstrates the effectiveness of Words2Wheels in generating driving styles that align with user preferences, offering a significant improvement over a well-established car-following model."}, {"description": "Words2Wheels can generate driving styles that align with user commands, even when no existing styles in the database directly match the command.", "supporting_evidence": "When the input was \"I’m going to be late for the train,\" the generated style exhibited higher speed, acceleration, and jerk. In contrast, when the input was \"Safety first. I have plenty of time,\" the generated style showed greater spacing, time headway, and relative speed (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The paper does not present any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This capability demonstrates the system's ability to generalize to new commands and driving scenarios, which is crucial for real-world applications."}, {"description": "The fuzzy memory function of Words2Wheels effectively recalls associated driving styles based on similar user commands.", "supporting_evidence": "With the exception of one case involving \"It’s snowing and visibility has decreased\", all other test cases were successfully recalled (Table IV).", "contradicting_evidence": "The system failed to recall the associated driving style in one case involving \"It’s snowing and visibility has decreased\" (Table IV).", "implications": "This functionality enhances the system's adaptability by enabling it to respond effectively to a broader range of natural language instructions by recalling similar previous commands."}]

Data Code Availability
Code and demo available at https://yokhon.github.io/Words2Wheels/.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study included an ablation study by testing the system's ability to generate driving styles when only providing styles that did not match the user commands (Figure 6). The study also tested the fuzzy memory function (Table IV).

Ethical Considerations
The study obtained consent from volunteers for human-in-the-loop comparisons. The paper does not explicitly mention any other ethical considerations, such as privacy or dual use.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 illustrates the workflow of Words2Wheels, the Driving Style Database, and the Statistical Evaluation module, providing a visual overview of the system's architecture. Figure 5 presents a comparison of customized policies over style-aware metrics, showing the system's ability to adapt to different driving styles based on user commands. Figure 6 shows evaluation of generated policies when no aligned styles provided, demonstrating the system's generalization capability. Table II summarizes human preferences on driving style alignment, providing quantitative evidence of Words2Wheels' superior performance compared to IDM. Table III presents case studies across all command levels, showing the system's performance in terms of analysis, decision-making, and generation.

Three Takeaways
(1) Words2Wheels introduces a novel framework for automatically customizing driving policies in autonomous vehicles based on natural language user commands, addressing the limitations of existing approaches by leveraging a Style-Customized Reward Function, a Driving Style Database, and a Statistical Evaluation module.

(2) The strongest evidence for the effectiveness of Words2Wheels comes from human-in-the-loop comparisons, where participants preferred the driving style generated by Words2Wheels over the Intelligent Driver Model (IDM) in 72% of the tested events (Table II), and from the system's ability to generate driving styles that align with user commands, even when no matching styles were initially available (Figure 6).

(3) A primary limitation of the study is its focus on car-following scenarios, which may limit the generalizability of the findings. Future work should focus on expanding the framework to more complex driving scenarios and refining the Statistical Evaluation module for finer tuning, to further enhance Words2Wheels’ adaptability and precision in style-aware driving.