Executive Summary
This study investigates the spectro-temporal properties of the low-mass X-ray binary GX 9+9 using data from the AstroSat observatory. The analysis focuses on the source's behavior in the soft state, characterized by a disk-dominated energy spectrum within the 0.7–25.0 keV range. The study divided the data into three flux levels (FL1, FL2, and FL3) to examine spectral parameter variations with increasing X-ray flux. Spectral analysis, using a combined Soft X-ray Telescope (SXT) and Large Area X-ray Proportional Counter (LAXPC) dataset, revealed that the best-fit model is const*tbabs*(thcomp*diskbb). The inner-disk radius (Rin) was estimated to be approximately 16.57±1.29 km. The total unabsorbed flux increased from FL1 to FL3, with a maximum of 7.30×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻² in the 0.01-100 keV band. Timing analysis using LAXPC data identified broad-band noise (BBN)-like variability centered at ~0.1 Hz. Energy-dependent temporal modeling, based on the formalism by Garg et al. (2019), suggests that the observed variability is driven by changes in the inner-disk temperature (kTin) and fractional scattering (fs). The study's novelty lies in its detailed spectro-temporal analysis of GX 9+9 using AstroSat data, providing estimates of source characteristics and insights into the radiative origin of its variability. The primary limitation is the poor data quality of the source, which constrains the depth of the analysis.

Research Context
GX 9+9, a neutron star low-mass X-ray binary (NS-LMXB), is an atoll source that exhibits a 'C'-shaped pattern in the hardness-intensity diagram (HID). Atoll sources transition between hard/island and soft/banana states. Prior studies have modeled the source's spectrum using power law, blackbody and Comptonization, and disk component models. These models often have geometric and locational ambiguities. Previous research has emphasized the role of spectral modeling in understanding coronal plasma. This work addresses the gap in understanding the spectro-temporal properties of GX 9+9, a less-studied source, by analyzing AstroSat data to estimate source characteristics and investigate the radiative origin of its variability. This study builds on previous research, such as Chatterjee et al. (2020) who presented IXPE data along with AstroSat spectral data, and Iaria et al. (2001) who reported an estimated Rin of 27±4 km.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research questions are: (1) What are the spectral properties of GX 9+9 in the soft state, and how do they vary with flux? (2) What are the temporal characteristics of GX 9+9, and what is the radiative origin of the observed variability? The primary hypotheses are: (1) The source's spectral parameters, such as inner-disk radius and flux, can be estimated using the AstroSat data and will show variations across different flux levels. (2) The timing analysis will reveal BBN-like variability, and energy-dependent temporal modeling will identify the physical parameters driving this variability. The study predicts that the source will transition towards a softer state with increasing X-ray flux, indicated by a slight decrease in kTe and an increase in Tin across the flux levels. The study also predicts that the variation in inner-disk temperature and fractional scattering will be the causes of the observed broad-band noise variability. These hypotheses differ from prior work by providing a detailed spectro-temporal analysis of GX 9+9 using AstroSat data, which allows for a more precise characterization of the source's behavior and the identification of the underlying physical mechanisms.

Methodological Details
The study utilized data from the AstroSat observatory, specifically the Large Area X-ray Proportional Counter (LAXPC) and Soft X-ray Telescope (SXT) instruments. The single available archival observation (Obs. ID: A09_018T01_9000003774) was taken on July 25, 2020. The LAXPC data was used for both spectral and timing analysis, while the SXT data was used for spectral analysis. The LAXPC 20 data was used due to abnormal gains in LAXPC counters 10 and 30. LAXPC operates in the 3-80 keV energy band. The LAXPC data was processed using the standard pipeline of LAXPC software (version: Oct. 13, 2022) to extract light curves, spectra, and response files. The SXT data, operating in the 0.3-8.0 keV energy range, was processed using the standard AS1SXTLevel2-1.4b SXT pipeline. The SXT data analysis used standard background and response files provided by the SXT payload operational center (POC). An annular zone with an outer radius of 13 arcmin and an inner radius of 2 arcmin was used to extract light curves and spectra. A 2% model systematic error was incorporated for background uncertainty estimation. A gain fit was applied to the SXT data. Both LAXPC and SXT spectra were grouped using the ftool ftgrouppha. The study performed spectral analysis using the XSPEC (version: 12.13.0c) package of HEASOFT (6.31.1). The HID was used to divide the data into three flux levels: FL1 (450 to 570 counts/s), FL2 (570 to 650 counts/s), and FL3 (650 to 770 counts/s). The best-fit model for spectral analysis was const*tbabs*(thcomp*diskbb). The inner-disk radius (Rin) was calculated using the formula: Rin= k2 (𝑁dbb /𝑐𝑜𝑠θ) 1/2 ∗ 𝐷10. Timing analysis used the multi-Lorentzian approach to the PDS. The relation between the phase lag and the time lag is given as: time lag = phase lag/2πf.

Procedures Architectures
The study employed the AstroSat observatory, utilizing its LAXPC and SXT instruments. LAXPC, with its high timing resolution (in order of microseconds), was used for timing analysis. The LAXPC instrument has three identical counters. LAXPC 20 data was used for the analysis. SXT, an imaging instrument, provided data in the low-energy range. The SXT data was processed using the standard pipeline. The spectral analysis combined SXT and LAXPC spectra, covering a broad energy range. The HID was used to segregate the flux into three levels. The best-fit model for spectral analysis, const*tbabs*(thcomp*diskbb), incorporated a cross-calibration component 'const', a thermal Comptonization model (ThComp), and a disk blackbody model (diskbb). The ThComp model was an improved version of the nThComp. The energy range was extended with 1000 log bins by “energies 0.01 500 1000 log” for the convolution model ThComp. The timing analysis utilized a multi-Lorentzian approach to the PDS. The energy-dependent temporal properties were modeled using the formalism by Garg et al. (2019), which relates spectral parameters with physical parameters to understand the stochastic variability. The model was applied to the rms and phase lag spectra. The study used the XSPEC package for spectral fitting. The best-fit model parameters are presented in Table 1. The study is new in its detailed spectro-temporal analysis of GX 9+9 using AstroSat data, providing estimates of source characteristics and insights into the radiative origin of its variability.

Key Results
The spectral analysis revealed that the source was in the soft state. The HID showed the source in the Banana State. The best-fit model was const*tbabs*(thcomp*diskbb). The inner-disk radius (Rin) was estimated to be approximately 16.57±1.29 km. The total unabsorbed flux increased from FL1 to FL3: FL1 ~5.94×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻², FL2 ~6.51×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻², and FL3 ~7.30×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻² in the 0.01-100 keV range. The maximum flux reached 7.30 × 10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻². The timing analysis revealed BBN-like variability centered at ~0.1 Hz. The rms at ~0.1 Hz increased with increasing energy, while the phase lag showed a decreasing trend with energy (Figure 3). The best-fit parameters for the energy-dependent temporal modeling are shown in Table 1. The variation in inner-disk temperature (kTin) and fractional scattering (fs) were found to be the causes of the observed broad-band noise variability. The reduced χ2 value for the energy-dependent temporal modeling was ~0.80. The average estimated Rin is around 16.54±1.78 km. The source's total unabsorbed flux in the 0.01-100 keV band, observing an increase from FL1 to FL3, is comparable to 7.8 × 10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻² reported by Iaria et al. [12] in the 0.1–100 keV range.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the source GX 9+9 was in the soft state during the observation. The increase in flux from FL1 to FL3 indicates an increase in the accretion rate. The estimated inner-disk radius provides insights into the geometry of the accretion disk. The observed BBN-like variability and the energy-dependent temporal modeling suggest that the variability is driven by changes in the inner-disk temperature and fractional scattering. These results support the theoretical framework of the propagative model, where variations in the inner disk propagate towards the coronal region, leading to observable changes in the X-ray emission. The study implies that the radiative mechanisms within the accretion disk and the corona play a crucial role in shaping the observed variability. The results provide a better understanding of the physical processes occurring in the GX 9+9 system.

Contradictions Limitations
The study is constrained by the poor data quality of the source, which limits the depth and precision of the analysis. The lack of high-quality data affects the accuracy of the spectral and temporal parameter estimations. The source GX 9+9 is not a well-studied source, and the limited archival observations restrict the ability to perform a comprehensive analysis. The study's findings are based on a single observation, which limits the ability to draw conclusions about the long-term behavior of the source. The study does not report the random seed used for the analysis. The estimated Rin value is relatively consistent with the previously reported estimated value of Iaria et al. [12], however, the study used a different disk-inclination angle and source distance. The error bars on the phase lag are consistent within data points, which limits the reliability of the phase lag. Further research and a variety of mission observations are necessary to get a better understanding of the source.

Claims
[{"description": "The source GX 9+9 was in the soft state during the AstroSat observation.", "supporting_evidence": "The HID of the source showed the source in the Banana State (Figure 1). The best-fit model for the spectral analysis was const*tbabs*(thcomp*diskbb).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This confirms that the source was in a state characterized by a disk-dominated energy spectrum, which is typical of soft states in atoll sources."}, {"description": "The inner-disk radius (Rin) was estimated to be approximately 16.57±1.29 km.", "supporting_evidence": "Based on the best-fit parameters from the spectral fitting, the average inner-disk radius (𝑅in) of the source during the observation was ~ 16.57±1.29 km.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This provides an estimate of the size of the accretion disk and can be used to understand the geometry of the system. This value is relatively consistent to the previously reported estimated value of 27±4 km by Iaria et al [12]."}, {"description": "The total unabsorbed flux increased from FL1 to FL3, with a maximum of 7.30×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻².", "supporting_evidence": "The total unabsorbed flux in the 0.01-100 keV band increased from FL1 ~5.94×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻² to FL3 ~7.30×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻².", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates an increase in the accretion rate as the flux level increases, suggesting that the source is transitioning towards a softer state."}, {"description": "BBN-like variability centered at ~0.1 Hz was detected in the timing analysis.", "supporting_evidence": "The timing analysis using LAXPC data identified BBN-like variability centered at ~0.1 Hz (Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates the presence of stochastic variability in the source, which is a common feature in LMXBs."}, {"description": "The variation in inner-disk temperature (kTin) and fractional scattering (fs) are the causes of the observed broad-band noise variability.", "supporting_evidence": "Energy-dependent temporal modeling, based on the formalism by Garg et al. (2019), suggests that the observed variability is driven by changes in the inner-disk temperature and fractional scattering (Table 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This provides insight into the physical mechanisms driving the variability, suggesting that changes in the inner-disk temperature and the amount of Compton scattering are responsible for the observed BBN."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 presents the HID of the source, showing the source's behavior in different flux levels. Figure 2 shows the best-fit spectrum of FL1, FL2, and FL3. Figure 3 (left) shows the PDS fit and (right) the energy-dependent temporal modeling of fractional r.m.s. and phase lag. Table 1 displays the best-fit parameters of spectral analysis and energy-dependent temporal modeling. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the source's spectral and temporal properties and for validating the study's claims.

Three Takeaways
(1) The study provides a detailed spectro-temporal analysis of the low-mass X-ray binary GX 9+9 using AstroSat data, which is a less-studied source, providing estimates of source characteristics and insights into the radiative origin of its variability. (2) The total unabsorbed flux increased from FL1 to FL3, with a maximum of 7.30×10⁻⁹ ergs s⁻¹ cm⁻², and the inner-disk radius (Rin) was estimated to be approximately 16.57±1.29 km, which is relatively consistent to the previously reported estimated value. (3) The primary limitation is the poor data quality of the source, which limits the depth and precision of the analysis, and further research and a variety of mission observations are necessary to get a better understanding of the source.