Executive Summary
This study investigates the impact dynamics of droplets on heated surfaces, identifying a "bouncing-with-spray" mode that significantly reduces droplet residence time compared to the traditional "retraction-bouncing" mode. The reduction in residence time is attributed to the burst of vapor bubbles in the liquid film, leading to hole formation and subsequent recoiling of the film. Experiments were conducted using water, ethanol, and water/glycerol mixtures impacting a heated silicon substrate. The residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode was found to be independent of liquid viscosity. A theoretical model was developed to explain the transition between the two bouncing modes, proposing a scaling law for the transition boundary in the film boiling regime, which agreed with experimental data. The study demonstrates a 40% reduction in residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode compared to the retraction-bouncing mode. The approach offers a simple and reliable method for reducing residence time, avoiding surface degradation and complex fabrication. Limitations include the need for further investigation through numerical simulations and experimental measurements of the bursting bubbles.

Research Context
Prior research on droplet impact on heated surfaces has focused on impact morphologies and the analysis of ejected secondary droplets. Studies have explored different impact regimes, including nucleate, transition, and film boiling. However, existing methods for reducing droplet residence time often involve surface modifications or complex fabrication techniques. This work addresses the need for a simple and reliable method to reduce residence time, particularly in applications like anti-icing and self-cleaning. The study differentiates itself by identifying and characterizing a bouncing mode induced by heat that achieves this reduction without surface alterations, offering a practical advantage over previous approaches.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to reduce the residence time of a droplet impacting a heated surface. The primary hypothesis is that a "bouncing-with-spray" mode, induced by the burst of vapor bubbles, will significantly reduce the residence time compared to the "retraction-bouncing" mode. This hypothesis is supported by the observation of different impact morphologies and the measurement of residence times in both modes. The study also investigates the factors influencing the transition between the two modes, specifically proposing a scaling law for the transition boundary in the film boiling regime. The alternative hypothesis is that factors like liquid viscosity will significantly impact the residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode. This is refuted by the experimental results showing independence of residence time on viscosity.

Methodological Details
The study employed an experimental approach to investigate droplet impact dynamics. The experimental setup, shown in Figure 1, consisted of a syringe pump (Harvard Apparatus, Pump 11 elite Pico plus) to deliver droplets of varying liquids (water, ethanol, and water/glycerol mixtures) onto a heated silicon substrate (silicon wafers, roughness < 0.5 nm). The substrate was heated by a copper holder, with temperature controlled by a PID controller, and monitored by two K-type thermocouples. Side-view and aerial-view images of the impact process were captured using a high-speed camera (Photron Fastcam SA1.1) illuminated by an LED light source. Droplet size (D0), impact speed (V), and shape evolution were measured from high-speed images using a customized Matlab program. The Weber number (We = ρD0V^2/σ) and Jakob number (Ja = cp(Tw −Ts)/ℓ) were calculated to characterize the impact conditions. The residence time was defined as the interval between the moments that the droplet visually contacts the substrate and that it visually detaches the substrate. The impact process was analyzed across three boiling regimes: nucleate, transition, and film boiling. No mention of preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections was made. Ethical considerations were not explicitly addressed.

Procedures Architectures
The experimental procedure involved generating droplets of different liquids, controlling their impact velocity and size, and varying the substrate temperature. Droplets were formed at the tip of a blunt syringe needle and impacted a polished silicon substrate heated by a copper holder. The high-speed camera captured the impact process from side and aerial views. The images were processed using a custom Matlab program to measure droplet size, impact speed, and residence time. The key components of the experimental setup included a syringe pump, syringe needle, heated copper plate, silicon wafer, PID temperature controller, high-speed camera, LED light source, and a computer for data acquisition and analysis. The study focused on observing and quantifying the impact dynamics, specifically the residence time of the droplets under varying conditions. The novel aspect of the study is the identification and characterization of the bouncing-with-spray mode, which reduces residence time without requiring surface modifications. The study also proposed a theoretical model to explain the transition between the retraction-bouncing and bouncing-with-spray modes, which is a new contribution.

Key Results
The study identified two distinct droplet bouncing modes: retraction-bouncing and bouncing-with-spray. In the transition boiling regime, at We = 37 and T = 380°C, the retraction-bouncing mode was observed, with a residence time of 12.0 ms (Figure 2b). The bouncing-with-spray mode was observed at We = 69 and T = 380°C, with a residence time of 6.5 ms (Figure 2c1); and at We = 105 and T = 380°C, with a residence time of 6.3 ms (Figure 2c2). In the film boiling regime, the retraction-bouncing mode (We = 25, T = 400°C, Figure 2d1) showed ejection of tiny droplets (Figure 2d2, T=440°C), while the bouncing-with-spray mode (We = 60, T = 440°C, Figure 2e1) was observed. The residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode was significantly smaller than in the retraction-bouncing mode. The residence time reduction in the bouncing-with-spray mode was about 40% compared to the retraction-bouncing mode (Figure 5). The residence time of the bouncing-with-spray mode was found to be independent of liquid viscosity (Figure 4). A scaling law, ∆T ∼ V^-1, was proposed for the transition boundary between the bouncing-with-spray mode and the retraction-bouncing mode in the film boiling regime, which agreed with the experimental data (Figure 6d).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the bouncing-with-spray mode, induced by vapor bubble bursts, provides a mechanism for significantly reducing droplet residence time on heated surfaces. The independence of residence time on viscosity indicates that viscous forces play a minor role in this process. The theoretical model developed provides a framework for understanding the transition between the two bouncing modes, linking it to the energy balance and a critical condition of bubble burst. The study implies that by controlling the surface temperature and impact velocity, it is possible to tailor the droplet impact dynamics to achieve desired outcomes, such as faster evaporation or reduced contact time. The results shift the understanding of droplet impact by highlighting the importance of vapor bubble dynamics in controlling residence time and offering a new perspective on optimizing this process for various applications.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the lack of detailed numerical simulations and experimental measurements of the bursting bubbles in the bouncing-with-spray mode, which could provide a more comprehensive understanding of the impact process. The study does not report the random seed used for the Matlab program or the train/test split. The external validity of the findings may be limited by the specific experimental conditions, such as the use of a polished silicon substrate. The study does not address the influence of surface roughness or other surface properties on the observed phenomena. The study does not explicitly discuss potential conflicts with prior literature, although it does position itself in the context of existing research on droplet impact.

Claims
[{"description": "The bouncing-with-spray mode significantly reduces droplet residence time compared to the retraction-bouncing mode.", "supporting_evidence": "The residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode was approximately 6.5 ms (We = 69, T = 380°C, Figure 2c1) and 6.3 ms (We = 105, T = 380°C, Figure 2c2), while in the retraction-bouncing mode, it was 12.0 ms (We = 37, T = 380°C, Figure 2b). The residence time reduction was about 40% (Figure 5).", "contradicting_evidence": "None reported.", "implications": "This finding suggests that the bouncing-with-spray mode is a more efficient mechanism for applications where rapid droplet removal is desired."}, {"description": "The residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode is independent of liquid viscosity.", "supporting_evidence": "The residence time of the bouncing-with-spray mode was consistent across different water/glycerol mixtures with varying viscosities (Figure 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "None reported.", "implications": "This indicates that viscous forces do not play a significant role in the residence time reduction mechanism, simplifying the modeling of this phenomenon."}, {"description": "A scaling law, ∆T ∼ V^-1, describes the transition boundary between the bouncing-with-spray mode and the retraction-bouncing mode in the film boiling regime.", "supporting_evidence": "Experimental data in the film boiling regime agreed well with the scaling law (Figure 6d).", "contradicting_evidence": "None reported.", "implications": "This scaling law provides a predictive tool for determining the conditions under which the bouncing-with-spray mode will occur, enabling control over the droplet impact dynamics."}, {"description": "The burst of vapor bubbles in the liquid film causes the bouncing-with-spray mode.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 3 shows the burst of vapor bubbles, which results in holes formation and recoiling of the liquid film from the holes.", "contradicting_evidence": "None reported.", "implications": "This mechanism provides a physical explanation for the reduced residence time in the bouncing-with-spray mode."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 illustrates the different impact morphologies observed in the nucleate, transition, and film boiling regimes, demonstrating the bouncing-with-spray mode and the retraction-bouncing mode. Figure 3 shows the burst of vapor bubbles in the bouncing-with-spray mode. Figure 4 demonstrates the effect of liquid viscosity on residence time. Figure 5 compares the dimensionless residence time in the retraction-bouncing and bouncing-with-spray modes. Figure 6d shows the agreement between the experimental data and the scaling law for the transition boundary.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the identification and characterization of the bouncing-with-spray mode, which reduces droplet residence time on heated surfaces. (2) The strongest evidence is the 40% reduction in residence time observed in the bouncing-with-spray mode compared to the retraction-bouncing mode, supported by the experimental data and the proposed scaling law. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of detailed analysis of the bursting bubbles in the bouncing-with-spray mode, which suggests the need for future research involving numerical simulations and more detailed experimental measurements to further refine the understanding of the impact process.