Executive Summary
This paper argues that in the far future, observers within a gravitationally bound system will be unable to detect the Hubble expansion, the cosmic microwave background (CMB), or the primordial origin of light elements, the three observational pillars of modern cosmology. The authors extrapolate the current ΛCDM universe forward in time, predicting that all evidence of the Hubble expansion will disappear within a timeframe comparable to the lifespan of the longest-lived stars. Consequently, future observers will be unable to determine the true nature of the universe, including the existence of dark energy and the Big Bang. The study suggests that the appropriate coordinate system for these future observers will resemble the static coordinate system of the de Sitter universe, effectively marking the end of cosmology as a scientific discipline. The authors analyze how the Hubble expansion, CMB, and primordial elemental abundances will become undetectable due to exponential redshift and stellar processing. The primary finding is that future observers will likely perceive a static "island universe," unable to infer the existence of dark energy or the Big Bang. The novelty lies in highlighting the transient nature of cosmological observability and the potential for a return to a static universe paradigm. The work underscores the importance of our current epoch, where we can observationally verify the cosmological expansion and the presence of dark energy. The main limitation is the reliance on extrapolations of current cosmological models, which are subject to uncertainties about the ultimate fate of the universe.

Research Context
The paper addresses the potential for a future where cosmological observations, central to our current understanding of the universe, become inaccessible. Modern cosmology relies on the Hubble expansion, the CMB, and primordial elemental abundances. The authors build on the understanding that all cosmological models with a non-zero cosmological constant will approach a de Sitter universe in the far future. They examine the implications of this future state, which is a departure from the standard cosmological model. Prior work has explored the implications of the de Sitter expansion, but this paper focuses on the practical consequences for future observers within bound gravitational systems. The study contrasts with the current epoch, where we can observe the expansion and dark energy. The paper challenges the assumption that future observers will be able to reconstruct the Big Bang model based on local observations.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What will be the observational consequences for future observers within a gravitationally bound system in a universe dominated by dark energy, and will they be able to infer the nature of the universe as we understand it today? The authors hypothesize that in the far future, observers will be unable to detect the Hubble expansion, the CMB, or primordial elemental abundances, leading them to conclude that they live in a static "island universe." The alternative hypothesis is that future observers, even without direct evidence of expansion, could infer the Big Bang model from other observations or theoretical considerations. The study predicts that the Hubble expansion will become undetectable due to the exponential redshift of distant objects beyond the de Sitter event horizon. The CMB will be redshifted to unobservable wavelengths, and primordial elemental abundances will be obscured by stellar processing. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the practical implications for future observers, rather than just the theoretical properties of the de Sitter universe. The study's predictions, if supported, would challenge the assumption that the Big Bang model is a permanent feature of our cosmological understanding.

Methodological Details
The paper employs a theoretical approach, relying on established cosmological models and extrapolations. The study is based on the ΛCDM model, which describes a flat universe consisting of roughly 30% matter and 70% dark energy. The authors use the de Sitter metric to describe the future state of the universe, where the cosmological constant dominates. The analysis involves considering the effects of exponential expansion on observable phenomena. The authors examine the fate of the Hubble expansion, the CMB, and the primordial elemental abundances. The Hubble expansion is analyzed in terms of the de Sitter event horizon and the exponential redshift of distant objects. The CMB is analyzed based on its redshift and the plasma frequency of the interstellar medium. The primordial elemental abundances are analyzed in terms of stellar processing and the destruction of deuterium. The study does not involve empirical data collection or statistical testing. The authors use existing literature and established physical principles to make their predictions. The study does not mention any ethical considerations or IRB approval, as it is a theoretical work. The paper does not specify a preregistration or the use of any specific software. The study relies on established physical principles and cosmological models to make its predictions. The paper does not provide details on the specific calculations used, but it refers to existing literature for relevant equations and results.

Procedures Architectures
The paper does not describe any specific procedures or architectures, as it is a theoretical study. The analysis is based on the ΛCDM model and the de Sitter metric. The authors consider the effects of exponential expansion on observable phenomena. The Hubble expansion is analyzed in terms of the de Sitter event horizon and the exponential redshift of distant objects. The CMB is analyzed based on its redshift and the plasma frequency of the interstellar medium. The primordial elemental abundances are analyzed in terms of stellar processing and the destruction of deuterium. The paper does not involve the construction of any models or systems. The paper does not describe any specific algorithms or computational methods. The authors rely on established physical principles and cosmological models to make their predictions. The paper does not provide details on the specific calculations used, but it refers to existing literature for relevant equations and results. The paper does not describe any novel architectures or procedures. The analysis is based on established cosmological concepts and mathematical tools.

Key Results
The primary result is that future observers within a gravitationally bound system will be unable to detect the Hubble expansion, the CMB, or the primordial origin of light elements. The Hubble expansion will become undetectable because all objects outside the local cluster will be driven outside the de Sitter event horizon within a timescale of approximately 100 billion years. The CMB will be redshifted to a wavelength of approximately 1 meter at t ≈ 100 Gyr, and its intensity will be redshifted by about 12 orders of magnitude, becoming unobservable. The CMB peak will redshift below the plasma frequency of the interstellar medium, making it unobservable. The primordial elemental abundances will be significantly contaminated by stellar evolution, and the relic deuterium will be destroyed. The authors estimate that the ratio of matter density to dark energy density inside the horizon volume will be ρM/ρΛ ∼10−12. The authors do not provide any baseline comparisons or effect sizes. The results are presented qualitatively, with the main findings supported by established cosmological principles and extrapolations. The paper does not report any negative results or unexpected findings.

Interpretation Implications
The findings imply that cosmology, as a scientific discipline, may be transient. The ability to observe and understand the universe's large-scale structure and evolution is contingent on our current epoch. The study suggests that future observers will likely perceive a static universe, similar to the pre-Hubble era. The paper implies that our current understanding of the universe, including the Big Bang and dark energy, is based on a unique set of observational circumstances. The study highlights the importance of the Hubble expansion, the CMB, and primordial elemental abundances as the pillars of modern cosmology. The paper suggests that the theoretical framework of general relativity will not, on its own, be sufficient for future observers to reconstruct the Big Bang model. The study implies that the scope conditions for cosmological observations are limited by the expansion of the universe and the evolution of observable phenomena. The findings shift our understanding by emphasizing the transient nature of cosmological observability and the potential for a return to a static universe paradigm.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is its reliance on extrapolations of current cosmological models, which are subject to uncertainties about the ultimate fate of the universe and the nature of dark energy. The paper does not address potential variations in the cosmological constant or the possibility of new physics. The study does not consider the possibility of future technological advancements that could allow future observers to detect the Hubble expansion, CMB, or primordial elemental abundances. The paper's conclusions are based on the assumption that the Local Group will remain gravitationally bound. The study does not consider the effects of possible future events, such as the decay of dark energy. The paper does not address the possibility of alternative cosmological models that might predict different outcomes. The study does not account for the possibility of future discoveries that could alter our understanding of the universe. The paper's conclusions are limited to observers within a gravitationally bound system and may not apply to other regions of the universe. The study does not provide any empirical evidence to support its claims; it is purely theoretical.

Claims
[{"description": "In the far future, observers within a gravitationally bound system will be unable to detect the Hubble expansion.", "supporting_evidence": "Objects outside the local cluster will be driven outside the de Sitter event horizon in a timescale of approximately 100 billion years, and their light will be exponentially redshifted, making them invisible. (See Section A)", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Future observers will not have observational evidence of the expansion of the universe, and they will likely conclude that they live in a static universe."}, {"description": "The Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) will become unobservable in the far future.", "supporting_evidence": "At t ≈ 100 Gyr, the peak wavelength of the CMB will be redshifted to roughly 1 meter, and its intensity will be redshifted by about 12 orders of magnitude. The CMB will redshift below the plasma frequency of the interstellar medium. (See Section B)", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Future observers will not be able to detect the CMB, which is a key piece of evidence for the Big Bang."}, {"description": "Primordial elemental abundances will be obscured in the far future.", "supporting_evidence": "Stellar evolution will significantly contaminate the helium-4 abundance, and relic deuterium will be destroyed. The primordial helium mass fraction will be dwarfed by that produced in stars. (See Section D)", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Future observers will not be able to infer the primordial abundances of elements, which are another key piece of evidence for the Big Bang."}, {"description": "Future observers will be unable to infer the existence of dark energy.", "supporting_evidence": "The ratio of matter density to dark energy density inside the horizon volume will be ρM/ρΛ ∼10−12. Future observers will have no probes of the length scales over which Λ dominates gravitational dynamics. (See Section A)", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Future observers will be unable to understand the dominant energy component of their universe."}, {"description": "General relativity alone will not lead future observers to infer the Big Bang expansion.", "supporting_evidence": "The inference that the universe must be expanding or contracting is dependent upon the cosmological hypothesis that we live in an isotropic and homogeneous universe, which will not be the case for future observers. (See Section C)", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Future observers will not be able to reconstruct the Big Bang model based on local observations and general relativity alone."}]

Key Figures Tables
The paper does not contain any figures or tables. The core claims are based on theoretical arguments and extrapolations, not empirical data or visualizations.

Three Takeaways
(1) The central contribution is the prediction that future observers will be unable to detect the Hubble expansion, the CMB, or the primordial origin of light elements, leading to a static universe paradigm. (2) The strongest evidence is the theoretical analysis showing how the Hubble expansion, CMB, and primordial elemental abundances will become undetectable due to exponential redshift and stellar processing. (3) The primary limitation is the reliance on extrapolations of current cosmological models, which are subject to uncertainties about the ultimate fate of the universe and the nature of dark energy, presenting an open problem for future research.