Executive Summary
This paper investigates the radio properties of blazars detected by the EGRET instrument, using data from the VLBA Imaging and Polarimetry Survey (VIPS). The study aims to characterize the parsec-scale jet properties of EGRET blazars and compare them to the broader population of radio-selected sources. The VIPS survey, with a lower flux limit than previous surveys, allows for a more detailed analysis of these objects. The primary findings indicate that EGRET-detected blazars tend to have higher brightness temperatures, greater core fractions, and possibly larger jet opening angles. A weak correlation was also found with jet length and polarization. These characteristics are consistent with systematically larger Doppler factors in gamma-ray loud blazars. The study analyzed 31 EGRET candidate blazars within the VIPS region, comparing their properties to the larger VIPS sample of 1127 sources. The results suggest that the gamma-ray emission is associated with a jet oriented at a small angle to the line-of-sight, leading to higher Doppler factors. Key limitations include the small number statistics and the mix of 5 GHz and 15 GHz measurements. The findings are relevant for understanding the mechanisms behind gamma-ray emission in blazars and will inform future studies using the Gamma-ray Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST).

Research Context
Previous studies of EGRET blazars have yielded conflicting results regarding their radio properties. Some studies suggested a correlation between gamma-ray and radio emission, while others found no direct correlation. Prior work, such as L¨ahteenm¨aki & Valtaoja (2003) and Lister & Homan (2005), examined the relationship between radio and gamma-ray flares and the polarization properties of EGRET blazars. However, these studies often relied on samples with higher flux limits, potentially missing key characteristics. This work addresses the limitations of previous studies by utilizing the VIPS survey, which has a lower flux limit, allowing for a more sensitive investigation of the radio properties of EGRET blazars. The study aims to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the relationship between radio emission and gamma-ray activity in blazars, particularly in the context of the upcoming GLAST mission.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What are the parsec-scale radio properties of EGRET-detected blazars, and how do they differ from the general population of radio-selected sources? The primary hypothesis is that EGRET blazars will exhibit distinct radio properties, specifically higher brightness temperatures, greater core fractions, and potentially larger jet opening angles, compared to the broader VIPS sample. These differences are predicted to arise from systematically larger Doppler factors in gamma-ray loud blazars. The alternative hypothesis is that there are no significant differences in radio properties between EGRET blazars and the general radio-selected population. The study aims to test these hypotheses by comparing the distributions of various radio properties (core fraction, brightness temperature, jet opening angle, jet length, and polarization) between the EGRET blazar candidates and the larger VIPS sample. The outcomes are that if the EGRET blazars have higher core fractions and brightness temperatures, this would support the hypothesis that gamma-rays are produced in a jet oriented at a small angle to the line-of-sight. If the jet opening angles are larger, this would further support the hypothesis. If no differences are found, the hypothesis is refuted. This work differs from prior studies by utilizing a larger, more uniform sample with a lower flux limit, enabling a more detailed and sensitive analysis of the radio properties of EGRET blazars.

Methodological Details
The study utilizes data from the VLBA Imaging and Polarimetry Survey (VIPS), which observed 1127 flat-spectrum sources stronger than 85 mJy in the Northern Cap region of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS). The VIPS survey was conducted between January and August 2006 and included 5 GHz, full polarization images of 958 sources, and 147 total intensity images for sources previously observed. The sample of EGRET blazar candidates was defined by comparing the latest EGRET catalog (Hartman et al. 1999) to the Combined Radio All-sky Targeted Eight GHz Survey (CRATES; Healey et al. 2007a). This intersection yielded a sample of 173 candidate EGRET sources at |b| > 10°. The study focused on the EGRET candidates within the ∼5700 square degree region of the sky covered by VIPS. The EGRET candidates were classified as “likely” or “plausible” based on a Figure of Merit (FoM) that considered 8.4 GHz flux density, radio spectral index, X-ray flux density, and positional coincidence. “Likely” candidates had FoM > 1, and “plausible” candidates had 1.0 > FoM > 0.25. The VLBI-scale properties of 31 EGRET candidate blazars were examined, and for the 25 sources imaged as part of VIPS, their properties were compared to the properties of the VIPS survey of 1127 sources. Source classification was performed using the automatic classification scheme of Helmboldt et al. (2007a). Polarization was measured from the VIPS and MOJAVE sources. Core fraction was defined as the ratio of flux density at 5 GHz in the VLBI core compared to the jet emission from the source at 5 GHz. Brightness temperatures were obtained from automatic model fits to source components, with further refinement for sources with two or fewer components. Jet opening angles were measured by determining the separation of each jet component from the core along the jet axis and the distance of each component from the jet axis. Jet bending was calculated by fitting a parabola to the centroids of Gaussian model components. The study did not specify a preregistration or multiple-comparison correction.

Procedures Architectures
The study leverages the VIPS survey, which employed the Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA) for high-resolution radio imaging. The VLBA consists of ten radio telescopes spread across the United States and its territories, providing milliarcsecond resolution. The VIPS survey observed flat-spectrum radio sources at 5 GHz. The EGRET blazar candidates were identified by cross-matching the EGRET catalog with the CRATES catalog. The CRATES catalog provides 8.4 GHz radio flux densities. The VIPS images were processed to determine various radio properties. Automatic model fitting was used to obtain brightness temperatures. The core-to-jet ratio was calculated using the flux densities of the core and jet components. Jet opening angles were determined by measuring the separation of jet components from the core and the distance of each component from the jet axis. Jet bending was quantified by fitting a parabola to the centroids of Gaussian model components. The study also utilized MOJAVE data at 15 GHz for some sources. The software used for image processing and analysis is not explicitly mentioned, but it can be inferred that standard VLBI data reduction and analysis techniques were employed. The key novelty lies in the use of the VIPS survey, which provides a large, uniform sample with a lower flux limit, enabling a more detailed analysis of EGRET blazars compared to previous studies. The study's architecture is based on comparing the radio properties of EGRET blazar candidates to those of the larger VIPS sample.

Key Results
The study found that EGRET-detected blazars tend to have higher brightness temperatures and greater core fractions. The K-S test probability that the core brightness temperature distributions for EGRET blazars and the VIPS survey as a whole were drawn from the same parent distribution was 4%. The K-S test probability for the core fraction distributions was also 4%. The EGRET sources appear to be biased toward more core-dominated systems. Polarization was detected from 48 ± 12% of the EGRET candidates, which is higher than the average of 36 ± 4% in VIPS overall. There is a hint that EGRET/VIPS jets have unusually large opening angles. The study found that 3 out of 4 of the randomly sampled values are greater than the median about 30% of the time. Six sources (J08098+5218, J09576+5522, J12215+2813, 1611+343, J16352+3808, J17406+5211) were identified as having opening angles larger than 20 degrees. The distribution of jet lengths in EGRET blazars did not appear to be appreciably different from that of the VIPS sample, with a K-S probability of 34%. The source J16036+1554 was found to be completely unresolved by the VLBA observations at 5 GHz, with a brightness temperature of > 1 × 1012 K. The study also found that the EGRET candidates in VIPS are classified as 8 PS, 3 SJET, and 14 LJET. Applying the same classification rules to the 6 MOJAVE sources adds 5 LJET and 1 SJET for totals of 8 (25%) PS, 4 (13%) SJET, and 19 (61%) LJET.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support models where gamma-rays are produced in a jet oriented at a small angle to the line-of-sight. The higher core fractions and brightness temperatures observed in EGRET blazars are consistent with this scenario, implying that these sources have higher Doppler factors. The potentially larger jet opening angles also suggest that the sight-line is close to or within the beaming cone of the radio emission. The study suggests that the gamma-ray flux density is not simply related to the radio flux density, and that selecting sources with large core fractions, high central brightness temperatures, and large opening angles may be advantageous for identifying strong gamma-ray emission. The results imply that EGRET blazars have higher Doppler factors than the radio-selected population at large, which manifests in the observed radio properties. The study's findings provide insights into the mechanisms behind gamma-ray emission in blazars and support the idea that the gamma-ray emission is more tightly beamed than the radio emission.

Contradictions Limitations
The study is limited by small number statistics, particularly when analyzing polarization and jet bending. The mix of 5 GHz measurements for VIPS sources and 15 GHz measurements for MOJAVE sources introduces a potential source of systematic error. The lack of a redshift distribution for the VIPS sample makes it difficult to investigate possible selection bias. The study acknowledges that the gamma-ray flux density is not simply related to the radio flux density, which suggests that selecting the brightest radio sources may not maximize the chances of coincidence with strong gamma-ray emission. The study does not address the question of whether the radio flaring precedes or follows the gamma-ray flare. The study also does not distinguish between sources with multiple identifications and those with a single identification. The study does not mention the random seed used for any simulations. The study does not provide information about the training/test splits.

Claims
[{"description": "EGRET-detected blazars tend to have higher brightness temperatures than the general population of radio-selected sources.", "supporting_evidence": "The K-S test probability for the core brightness temperature distributions coming from the same parent population is 4% (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the hypothesis that gamma-ray emission is associated with a jet oriented at a small angle to the line-of-sight, leading to higher Doppler factors."}, {"description": "EGRET-detected blazars tend to have greater core fractions compared to the overall VIPS sample.", "supporting_evidence": "The K-S test probability that the two distributions were drawn from the same parent distribution is 4% (Figure 5).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that EGRET blazars are more core-dominated systems, consistent with the idea that the gamma-ray emission is more tightly beamed than the radio emission."}, {"description": "EGRET blazars may have larger jet opening angles compared to the VIPS sample.", "supporting_evidence": "Three out of four randomly sampled values are greater than the median about 30% of the time. Six sources (J08098+5218, J09576+5522, J12215+2813, 1611+343, J16352+3808, J17406+5211) were identified as having opening angles larger than 20 degrees.", "contradicting_evidence": "The statistics are based on very small numbers.", "implications": "This supports the idea that the sight-line is close to or within the beaming cone of the radio emission."}, {"description": "The EGRET candidates have a higher percentage of long jets (LJET) compared to the VIPS population as a whole.", "supporting_evidence": "61% of the EGRET/MOJAVE sources are classified as LJET.", "contradicting_evidence": "The number of sources is small, and the difference is only marginally significant.", "implications": "This might suggest a bias in the selection, or that the jets of blazars have intrinsically greater surface brightness."}, {"description": "The polarization detected from the EGRET candidates is higher than the average in VIPS overall.", "supporting_evidence": "Polarization was detected from 48 ± 12% of the EGRET candidates, compared to 36 ± 4% in VIPS overall.", "contradicting_evidence": "The numbers of sources involved are too small to make a definitive statement.", "implications": "This is consistent with the higher Doppler factors in EGRET blazars."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 5 plots the distribution of core-to-jet ratio for the EGRET candidates against the distribution for the VIPS survey as a whole. The x-axis represents the core-to-jet ratio, and the y-axis represents the number of sources. The figure illustrates that the EGRET sources appear to be biased toward more core-dominated systems. Figure 6 shows the distributions of brightness temperatures for the core and jet components of the EGRET candidates and the VIPS survey. The x-axis represents the brightness temperature, and the y-axis represents the number of sources. The figure suggests that the brightness temperatures for the cores of the EGRET candidates may be higher than average. Table 1 summarizes the EGRET candidate sources and their properties.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the characterization of the parsec-scale radio properties of EGRET blazars using the VIPS survey, which has a lower flux limit than previous surveys, allowing for a more sensitive analysis. (2) The strongest evidence is that EGRET blazars tend to have higher core fractions and brightness temperatures, with a K-S test probability of 4% for both, supporting the hypothesis that gamma-ray emission is associated with a jet oriented at a small angle to the line-of-sight. (3) The primary limitation is the small number statistics, particularly when analyzing polarization and jet bending, which limits the strength of the conclusions. Future work should focus on increasing the sample size and obtaining more detailed multi-wavelength observations to further investigate the relationship between radio emission and gamma-ray activity.