Executive Summary
In 2017, Sri Lanka experienced its largest dengue outbreak, coinciding with a shift from the predominant circulating dengue virus serotype 1 (DENV1) to serotype 2 (DENV2). This study compared the clinical features of 172 adult patients with acute DENV1 (n=79) and DENV2 (n=93) infections. The research found that DENV2 infection was associated with a significantly higher risk of developing dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) (54.8% vs. 32.9% for DENV1; odds ratio = 2.5, p=0.005). Patients with DENV2 developed fluid leakage earlier (median 3 days vs. 5 days for DENV1, p<0.0001) and were more likely to experience significant bleeding. Whole-genome sequencing revealed that the DENV2 isolates belonged to a cosmopolitan strain, genetically distinct from previous Sri Lankan strains. The study's novelty lies in its association of a specific DENV2 strain with increased disease severity during a large-scale outbreak. These findings are significant because they highlight the need to understand the genetic variations or other factors contributing to the increased severity of the disease. The main limitation is that the study focuses on a single geographical location and a specific time period, which may limit the generalizability of the findings.

Research Context
Dengue fever is a significant global health concern, with increasing incidence and economic burden. Sri Lanka has experienced regular dengue epidemics since 1989, with a marked increase in cases over the years. Prior to this study, the predominant circulating serotype in Sri Lanka was DENV1. The study addresses the gap in understanding the clinical impact of the emergence of a new DENV2 strain. Previous studies have documented the increase in dengue cases, but this study focuses on the shift in serotype and its association with disease severity. Prior work has not fully characterized the specific DENV2 strain responsible for the 2017 outbreak and its clinical implications, specifically the increased severity of the disease. This study aims to address this gap.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What are the clinical and virological characteristics of the DENV2 strain responsible for the largest dengue outbreak in Sri Lanka in 2017, and how does it compare to the previously dominant DENV1 strain?

The primary hypothesis is that the emergence of the DENV2 strain is associated with increased disease severity, including a higher incidence of DHF, earlier onset of fluid leakage, and increased bleeding manifestations. Alternative hypotheses include: (1) no significant difference in disease severity between DENV1 and DENV2 infections; (2) differences in severity are due to factors other than the viral serotype. The study's design allows for the direct comparison of clinical and laboratory features between patients infected with DENV1 and DENV2. The study's findings would support the primary hypothesis if DENV2-infected patients exhibited a significantly higher rate of DHF, earlier fluid leakage, and increased bleeding compared to DENV1-infected patients. This study differs from previous work by focusing on the specific DENV2 strain and its association with increased disease severity during a large-scale outbreak, including genetic analysis of the circulating strains.

Methodological Details
The study employed a prospective observational design, recruiting 172 adult patients with acute dengue infection from the National Institute of Infectious Diseases in Sri Lanka between January 2015 and June 2017. Participants provided written informed consent. Inclusion criteria were not specified. The day of fever onset was considered day one of illness. Clinical data collected daily included fever, vomiting, abdominal pain, hepatomegaly, bleeding manifestations, blood pressure, pulse pressure, urine output, and haematocrit. Serial full blood counts, liver function tests, and ultrasound scans were performed. Dengue severity was classified according to the 2011 WHO guidelines. DHF was defined by a rise in haematocrit >20% or detectable fluid leakage by ultrasound. Shock was defined by cold, clammy skin and a pulse pressure ≤ 20 mmHg. The critical phase was defined by the day of onset of fluid leakage detected by ultrasound. RNA was extracted from serum samples using the QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit. cDNA was synthesized using the High Capacity cDNA reverse transcription kit. Multiplex quantitative real-time PCR was performed to detect and quantify DENV serotypes using CDC real-time PCR assays. DENV isolation was carried out using the A. albopictus mosquito (C6/36) cell line. Full genome sequencing was performed using the Sanger method. Phylogenetic analysis was performed using GENIOUS software. Statistical analysis was performed using Graph PRISM version 6. Differences in means were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test. Differences in serial values of platelet counts and liver enzymes were analyzed using multiple unpaired t-tests with Holm-Sidak correction. Associations between clinical features were assessed using odds ratios, Chi-square tests, or Fisher's exact tests. The study was approved by the Ethical Review Committee of The University of Sri Jayewardenepura. No preregistration was mentioned. Multiple-comparison corrections were applied.

Procedures Architectures
The study involved several key procedures. Patient recruitment and clinical data collection were conducted at the National Institute of Infectious Diseases. Blood samples were collected serially for laboratory analysis. RNA extraction was performed using the QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit, followed by cDNA synthesis using the High Capacity cDNA reverse transcription kit. Multiplex quantitative real-time PCR was used for serotype detection. DENV-2 isolates were obtained by infecting C6/36 cells with patient serum. Viral RNA was extracted from the supernatant. Full genome sequencing was performed using the Sanger method, with the genome amplified in 11 overlapping fragments using PCR primers designed with Geneious software. Phylogenetic analysis was conducted using the Neighbor-joining method with the Tamura-Nei model, and the DENV-2 genotypes were classified based on Rico-Hesse's report. The study used the CDC real-time PCR assay for DENV detection. The specific primers used for sequencing are detailed in supplementary table 1. The study did not involve the development of any novel architectures or models. The software versions used are GENIOUS software (v10.0.4) and Graph PRISM version 6. The study's novelty lies in the application of whole-genome sequencing to characterize the DENV2 strain and its association with clinical outcomes during a large outbreak. The study's architecture is based on standard molecular biology and phylogenetic analysis techniques.

Key Results
The study included 172 patients: 79 with DENV1 and 93 with DENV2. Secondary infections were present in 82.3% of DENV1 and 92.4% of DENV2 patients. DHF was significantly more frequent in DENV2 patients (54.8%) compared to DENV1 patients (32.9%) (odds ratio = 2.5, p=0.005). Patients with DENV2 entered the critical phase significantly earlier (median 3 days) than those with DENV1 (median 5 days, p<0.0001). Patients with DENV2 were more likely to develop significant bleeding, although this was not statistically significant. The proportion of patients with very low platelet counts (<20,000 cells/mm3) was higher in the DENV2 group (40.9%) compared to the DENV1 group (27.8%). DENV2 patients had significantly lower platelet counts on days 3, 4, and 5 of illness. There were no significant differences in ALT or AST levels between the two groups. Phylogenetic analysis showed that the DENV2 isolates belonged to a cosmopolitan strain, closely related to 2015-2016 Singaporean strains with 99-100% sequence similarity based on the envelope region and the full genome analysis. The 2016 DENV-2 isolates were genetically more distant from the DENV2 strains that circulated from 1981 to 2004 in Sri Lanka. The incidence of dengue in 2017 was 865.9/100,000 population, a substantial increase from 189.4/100,000 in 2015. The average number of cases increased by more than 3.5-fold.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the emergence of a new DENV2 strain in Sri Lanka was associated with increased disease severity, contributing to the largest dengue outbreak in the country's history. The earlier onset of fluid leakage and the higher incidence of DHF in DENV2 infections indicate a more aggressive disease course. The genetic analysis suggests that the new DENV2 strain originated from Singapore. The study implies that the shift in serotype, rather than the presence of secondary infections alone, played a significant role in the increased severity. The study highlights the need to understand the mechanisms underlying the increased virulence of the DENV2 strain, including potential genetic variations or other factors. The findings underscore the importance of monitoring circulating serotypes and implementing early interventions to mitigate the impact of future outbreaks.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's findings are limited by its focus on a single geographical location (Sri Lanka) and a specific time period (2015-2017), which may limit the generalizability of the results. The study does not investigate the specific mechanisms behind the increased severity of the DENV2 strain, such as specific mutations or host factors. The study does not provide information on the inclusion/exclusion criteria for patients. The study does not report the random seed used. The study does not account for the potential impact of prior DENV exposure on the severity of subsequent infections. Although the study mentions that the patients were recruited from the National Institute of Infectious Diseases, the study does not provide information on the demographics of the patients. The study does not provide information on the potential impact of other factors, such as socioeconomic status or access to healthcare, on the outcomes. The study does not provide information on the specific primers used for the real-time PCR assay.

Claims
[{"description": "DENV2 infection was associated with a significantly higher risk of developing DHF compared to DENV1 infection.", "supporting_evidence": "54.8% of DENV2 patients developed DHF compared to 32.9% of DENV1 patients (odds ratio = 2.5, p=0.005).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the DENV2 strain is more virulent than the previously circulating DENV1 strain, leading to more severe disease outcomes."}, {"description": "Patients with DENV2 infection entered the critical phase significantly earlier than those with DENV1 infection.", "supporting_evidence": "The median time to the critical phase was 3 days for DENV2 patients compared to 5 days for DENV1 patients (p<0.0001).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates a more rapid progression of the disease in DENV2 infections, potentially requiring earlier clinical intervention."}, {"description": "The DENV2 isolates from the 2017 outbreak belonged to a cosmopolitan strain, genetically distinct from earlier Sri Lankan DENV2 strains.", "supporting_evidence": "Phylogenetic analysis showed that the 2016 DENV2 isolates were closely related to 2015-2016 Singaporean strains and genetically distant from the DENV2 strains that circulated from 1981 to 2004 in Sri Lanka.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the outbreak was caused by a new introduction of the DENV2 strain, likely from Singapore, highlighting the importance of monitoring viral introductions."}, {"description": "Patients with DENV2 infection were more likely to develop significant bleeding compared to patients with DENV1 infection.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reported that patients with DENV2 infection were more likely to develop significant bleeding in the form of haematemesis and malena and to require blood transfusions, although this was not statistically significant.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the DENV2 strain may be associated with increased bleeding complications, which could contribute to the increased severity of the disease."}]

Ethical Considerations
The study was approved by the Ethical Review Committee of The University of Sri Jayewardenepura. All patients were adults and recruited post written consent.

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 presents the clinical and laboratory features of patients with DENV1 and DENV2 infections. Figure 1 shows the serial platelet counts and liver enzyme levels. Figure 3 provides the phylogenetic tree of DENV-2 isolates. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the differences in clinical presentation and the genetic relationships between the different DENV-2 strains. They provide the quantitative evidence for the claims made in the paper.

Three Takeaways
(1) The study demonstrates that the emergence of a new DENV2 strain was associated with increased disease severity, including a higher incidence of DHF and earlier onset of fluid leakage, contributing to the largest dengue outbreak in Sri Lanka's history. (2) The strongest evidence is the significantly higher risk of DHF in DENV2 patients (54.8%) compared to DENV1 patients (32.9%), with an odds ratio of 2.5 (p=0.005), and the earlier onset of the critical phase in DENV2 patients (median 3 days vs. 5 days for DENV1, p<0.0001). (3) A primary limitation is the lack of investigation into the specific mechanisms underlying the increased virulence of the DENV2 strain, leaving open the question of what genetic variations or other factors are responsible. Future research should focus on identifying these mechanisms to inform targeted interventions.