Executive Summary
This study introduces a series of star-shaped aromatic nitric acid radical (ANAR) materials designed for highly efficient photothermal conversion. These materials, synthesized via facile demethylation and oxidation of phenolic hydroxyl precursors, exhibit high spin concentration and enhanced nonradiative decay. Among the synthesized compounds, TPA-TPA-O6 demonstrated superior performance, achieving a high water evaporation efficiency of 89.41% and a water evaporation rate of 1.293 kg/m²h under one-sun irradiation. This performance surpasses that of other pure organic small molecule photothermal materials. The study highlights the potential of ANARs for solar energy conversion, particularly in seawater desalination. The materials exhibit excellent electrochemical and photothermal stability, with TPA-TPA-O6 showing negligible photobleaching effects. The novelty lies in the use of stable open-shell radicals as photothermal materials, offering a new approach to solar energy utilization. The primary limitation is the scope of materials tested and the need for further exploration of structural optimization for enhanced performance. The study suggests that ANARs can be applied in solar-driven water evaporation, photothermal therapy, and photothermal catalysis.

Research Context
Current photothermal conversion materials include inorganic materials, two-dimensional frameworks, and conjugated polymers, but these have limitations. Inorganic materials can contain heavy metals, while two-dimensional frameworks and conjugated polymers often have poor synthesis reproducibility, high cost, and poor solubility. Organic small molecules offer advantages in structural definiteness and convenient preparation, but existing examples like porphyrin and cyanine dyes have issues with cumbersome synthesis or poor photothermal stability. This work addresses the gap by developing stable open-shell radicals as photothermal materials, which can convert near-infrared (NIR) light into heat via nonradiative decay. The study builds on previous research on stable radicals, aiming to overcome the limitations of existing materials and provide a new strategy for solar energy utilization.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether stable open-shell aromatic nitric acid radicals (ANARs) can be designed and synthesized to achieve highly efficient photothermal conversion. The primary hypothesis is that the synthesized ANARs, particularly TPA-TPA-O6, will exhibit high photothermal conversion efficiency due to their high spin concentration and enhanced nonradiative decay. This is based on the expectation that the unique physical and optical properties of these radicals will facilitate efficient conversion of NIR light into heat. Alternative hypotheses include that the materials may exhibit poor stability, low conversion efficiency, or limited applicability in real-world scenarios like seawater desalination. The study aims to demonstrate that ANARs offer advantages over existing photothermal materials by providing a cost-effective, easily synthesized, and stable alternative. The research differs from prior work by focusing on stable open-shell radicals, which have not been extensively explored in the context of photothermal conversion.

Methodological Details
The study involved the synthesis and characterization of four star-shaped ANAR materials: TPA-TPA-O6, TPA-TPZ-O6, TPA-PY-O8, and Spiro-O8. The synthesis involved demethylation and oxidation of phenolic hydroxyl precursors. The detailed synthetic schemes and characterization are provided in the supporting information. The materials were characterized using cyclic voltammetry (CV), UV-vis-NIR spectroscopy, and electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy. CV tests were conducted in dichloromethane solution containing 0.1 M nBu4NPF6 as a supporting electrolyte at a scan rate of 0.1 V/s. The methoxy substituted precursors were dissolved in dichloromethane at a concentration of 5 mg/mL, and the target radical compounds were coated on a carbon-glass electrode to form a film during measurements. Potential values were reported with a saturated calomel electrode as the reference electrode using the Fc+/Fc couple (0.27 V) as an internal standard. Photoluminescence and photoluminescence quantum yield (PLQY) tests were performed. The photothermal properties were evaluated by monitoring the temperature increment under irradiation using an IR thermal camera. An 808 nm laser with an energy power of 0.8 W cm-2 was used for irradiation. An interface heating evaporation system was established using a commercially available white polyurethane (PU) porous foam as a support. The water evaporation efficiency was calculated based on the mass change of water. The study also included tests for seawater desalination. No mention of preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections was made. No information was provided on random seeds or train/test splits.

Procedures Architectures
The study synthesized four star-shaped ANAR materials: TPA-TPA-O6, TPA-TPZ-O6, TPA-PY-O8, and Spiro-O8. The synthesis involved demethylation and oxidation of phenolic hydroxyl precursors. The synthetic schemes and characterization details are in the supporting information. The materials were characterized using various techniques. UV-Vis absorption spectra were obtained using dichloromethane solution and film. Photoluminescence and PLQY were tested in dichloromethane solution and film. Cyclic voltammetry (CV) was used to assess chemical and electrochemical stability. ESR spectroscopy was used to characterize the radical spin signal and concentration. The photothermal properties were evaluated by monitoring the temperature increment under irradiation using an IR thermal camera. An 808 nm laser was used for irradiation. An interface heating evaporation system was established using a commercially available white polyurethane (PU) porous foam as a support. TPA-TPA-O6 was loaded inside the PU foam by impregnating pure PU foam in solution and drying at 80 °C. The water evaporation efficiency was calculated. The key innovation is the design and synthesis of stable open-shell ANARs, which exhibit high spin concentration and enhanced nonradiative decay, leading to efficient photothermal conversion. The study also used a PU foam support for solar-driven water evaporation.

Key Results
The UV-Vis absorption spectra of TPA-TPA-OMe in dichloromethane solution and film showed absorption at 305 nm and 380 nm, respectively. The film absorption of TPA-TPA-O6 showed a red shift, with a long absorption tail from 400-825 nm. The PLQYs of the radical products were significantly reduced, all showing low fluorescence quantum yields lower than 1%. The HOMO energy levels of TPA-TPA-O6, TPA-TPZ-O6, TPA-PY-O8, and Spiro-O8 were -4.90, -4.81, -4.97, and -4.84 eV, respectively. The ESR signal intensity increased after demethylation. The PLQY values of TPA-TPA-O6, TPA-TPZ-O6, TPA-PY-O8, and Spiro-O8 were 0.1%, 0.9%, 1.0%, and 0.3%, respectively. TPA-TPA-O6 showed superior photothermal conversion performance, increasing from 25 °C to about 210 °C within 60 s under 808 nm laser irradiation at 0.8 W cm-2. Under 1.0 W cm-2, the temperature reached 250 °C within 60 s. The water evaporation efficiency of TPA-TPA-O6 was 89.41% and the water evaporation rate was 1.293 kg/m²h under 1 sun irradiation. The equilibrium temperature of PU+ TPA-TPA-O6 foam reached 81.2 °C, while PU foam reached 36 °C under 1 sun irradiation. After desalination, the concentrations of Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+, and K+ were significantly reduced.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the synthesized ANARs, particularly TPA-TPA-O6, are highly effective photothermal conversion materials due to their high spin concentration and enhanced nonradiative decay. The reduced PLQY and the wide absorption spectrum of TPA-TPA-O6 support the proposed mechanism of radical-promoted nonradiative decay. The excellent electrochemical and photothermal stability of the materials, along with the high water evaporation efficiency, indicate their potential for solar energy utilization and seawater desalination. The study implies that the design of stable open-shell radicals is a viable strategy for developing high-performance photothermal materials. The results broaden the understanding of how to design organic small molecules for efficient solar energy conversion.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not report the random seed used for any experiments. The study does not mention the use of a control group for the photothermal conversion experiments, which limits the ability to isolate the effect of the ANARs. The study focuses on a limited set of ANAR materials, and the generalizability of the findings to other radical structures is not fully established. The study does not provide details on the long-term stability of the materials under various environmental conditions. The study does not report the specific methods used for the synthesis and purification of the materials, which could affect reproducibility. The lack of detailed information on the PU foam used and its properties is a limitation. The study does not include a detailed error analysis or sensitivity analysis. The study does not provide information on the demographics of the samples used. The study does not provide information on the statistical significance of the results.

Claims
[{"description": "TPA-TPA-O6 exhibits a high water evaporation efficiency under one-sun irradiation.", "supporting_evidence": "The water evaporation efficiency of TPA-TPA-O6 was recorded as 89.41% under 1 sun illumination.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the potential of TPA-TPA-O6 for efficient solar-driven water evaporation."}, {"description": "TPA-TPA-O6 demonstrates a high water evaporation rate.", "supporting_evidence": "The water evaporation rate was 1.293 kg/m²h under 1 sun irradiation.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the potential of TPA-TPA-O6 for practical applications in solar desalination."}, {"description": "TPA-TPA-O6 exhibits superior photothermal conversion performance compared to other synthesized materials.", "supporting_evidence": "TPA-TPA-O6 increased from 25 °C to about 210 °C within 60 s under 808 nm laser irradiation at 0.8 W cm-2.", "contradicting_evidence": "TPA-TPZ-O6 and TPA-PY-O8 showed lower temperature changes under the same conditions.", "implications": "This suggests that TPA-TPA-O6 is more effective at converting light energy into heat."}, {"description": "The synthesized ANARs exhibit excellent electrochemical and photothermal stability.", "supporting_evidence": "The ANARs showed excellent reversibility in CV tests. TPA-TPA-O6 exhibited excellent stability for ten cycles of laser irradiation on and off.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates the potential for long-term use of these materials in photothermal applications."}, {"description": "The open-shell ANARs show promise for seawater desalination.", "supporting_evidence": "After desalination, the concentrations of Na+, Mg2+, Ca2+, and K+ were significantly reduced.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that ANARs can be applied in solar-driven water evaporation, photothermal therapy, and photothermal catalysis."}]

Data Code Availability
The Supporting Information is available free of charge at http://pubs.acs.org.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows the UV-Vis absorption spectra of the materials, demonstrating the red shift and wide absorption range of TPA-TPA-O6. Figure 4A and S11 show the ESR spectra, indicating the high concentration of radical spin. Figure 5A and 5C show the temperature increase under laser irradiation, demonstrating the superior photothermal conversion performance of TPA-TPA-O6. Figure 6F shows the mass change curves of water with PU foam and PU+TPA-TPA-O6 foam, demonstrating the efficiency of solar-driven water evaporation. Table S1 provides the HOMO and LUMO energy levels and PLQY values.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the design and synthesis of stable open-shell aromatic nitric acid radicals (ANARs) for highly efficient photothermal conversion, particularly TPA-TPA-O6, which exhibits a high water evaporation efficiency and rate under one-sun irradiation. (2) The strongest evidence is the high water evaporation efficiency of 89.41% and the water evaporation rate of 1.293 kg/m²h under 1 sun irradiation for TPA-TPA-O6, demonstrating its superior performance. (3) The primary limitation is the scope of materials tested and the need for further exploration of structural optimization for enhanced performance. Future research should focus on exploring a wider range of ANAR structures and optimizing their properties for improved photothermal conversion efficiency and stability.