Executive Summary
This study presents the direct experimental observation of a π-hole in a single molecule using Kelvin probe force microscopy (KPFM). The research investigates 9,10-Dichlorooctafluoroanthracene (FCl-An), a molecule predicted to possess a π-hole, and compares its behavior to anthracene (An), which lacks this feature. The molecules were self-assembled on an Au(111) surface, and KPFM was used to map the local contact potential difference (LCPD), revealing a distinct "bow-tie" pattern in FCl-An, indicative of the π-hole. This pattern was absent in An. The study found that the presence of the π-hole in FCl-An influences its adsorption behavior on the Au(111) surface, increasing its adsorption height by 30 pm relative to An. Theoretical calculations, including density functional theory (DFT) and symmetry-adapted perturbation theory (SAPT0), supported the experimental findings, showing that the π-hole affects the electrostatic interaction between the molecule and the metallic surface. The novelty lies in the direct visualization of the π-hole using KPFM, confirming theoretical predictions. The work demonstrates the potential of scanning probe microscopy to study submolecular charge distributions and their impact on molecular interactions. A limitation is the use of a single molecule for the study, and the need for further investigation of the impact of the π-hole on other molecular systems.

Research Context
The study addresses the need for direct experimental observation of π-holes, which are π-electron-deficient cavities in molecules that significantly affect their physical-chemical properties and intermolecular interactions. While the concept of π-holes has been developed theoretically, direct experimental evidence has been lacking. Prior research has indirectly inferred the existence of π-holes based on measured data. Scanning probe microscopy (SPM) with functionalized probes has enabled high-resolution imaging of molecular structures, but direct visualization of π-holes has not been achieved. This work builds on the existing knowledge of non-covalent interactions and the importance of charge distribution in molecules, particularly in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs).

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether the π-hole, a theoretically predicted feature in certain molecules, can be directly observed experimentally. The primary hypothesis is that KPFM can visualize the π-hole in FCl-An, a molecule designed to possess this feature, and that the absence of the π-hole will be observed in An. The study predicts that the KPFM images of FCl-An will exhibit a distinct submolecular contrast, specifically a "bow-tie" pattern, reflecting the charge distribution associated with the π-hole. It is further hypothesized that the presence of the π-hole will influence the adsorption behavior of FCl-An on a metallic surface compared to An. Supporting evidence would include KPFM images showing the predicted contrast pattern for FCl-An, and differences in adsorption height and interaction energies between FCl-An and An. This work differs from prior research by providing direct experimental evidence of the π-hole using KPFM, rather than relying on indirect inferences.

Methodological Details
The study employed a combination of experimental and theoretical methods. The primary experimental technique was KPFM, conducted at 4.2 K using a commercial STM/nc-AFM microscope (Createc GmbH). The Au(111) substrate was prepared by Ar+ sputtering and annealing. 9,10-Dichlorooctafluoroanthracene (FCl-An) and anthracene (An) molecules were simultaneously sublimated onto the Au(111) surface at room temperature. KPFM measurements involved mapping the LCPD by fitting a parabolic expression to frequency shift vs bias spectroscopies (Δf(V, x, y)) collected at a constant height. The data was collected at constant height using the same CO functionalized tip for both anthracene and chlorinated molecules. The LCPD value and the Δf * parameter were extracted from the fitted parabolas and plotted separately in the (x, y) grids to generate maps. The tip was functionalized with carbon monoxide (CO). STM topography was acquired in constant current mode. Nc-AFM imaging was conducted in constant height mode with a qPlus sensor. The theoretical methods involved DFT calculations using the FHI-AIMS code, employing the PBE version of the GGA for the exchange-correlation functional. The surface Brillouin zone was represented by only one k-point (Γ). The hybrid PBE0 functional and the "tight" basis were used for free-standing molecules. Van der Waals corrections were applied. AFM and KPFM images were simulated using the Probe Particle (PP) model. SAPT0 analysis was performed using the PSI4 program. The study did not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections.

Procedures Architectures
The experimental setup involved a commercial STM/nc-AFM microscope with a CO-functionalized tip. The Au(111) substrate was prepared via sputtering and annealing. FCl-An and An molecules were deposited via simultaneous sublimation. KPFM was performed by measuring the frequency shift as a function of bias voltage at a constant tip-sample height. The LCPD maps were generated by fitting a parabolic expression to the frequency shift data. The theoretical calculations utilized DFT-based methods implemented in the FHI-AIMS code. The PBE functional was used for geometry optimization and the hybrid PBE0 functional was also used. The Au(111) surface was modeled using a slab consisting of 4 atomic layers. AFM and KPFM images were simulated using the PP model adapted to a CO-terminated tip. The elastic deflection of the CO molecule was modeled using a lateral spring constant. DFT-calculated electron densities and electrostatic potential maps were used in the PP model. SAPT0 calculations were performed using the PSI4 program. The key components were the STM/nc-AFM microscope, the CO-functionalized tip, the Au(111) substrate, the FHI-AIMS code for DFT calculations, and the PSI4 program for SAPT0 calculations. The novelty lies in the use of KPFM with a CO-functionalized tip to directly visualize the π-hole and the comparison of FCl-An and An molecules.

Key Results
The study successfully visualized the π-hole in FCl-An using KPFM. The KPFM images revealed a distinct "bow-tie" pattern in FCl-An, which was absent in An (Figure 3). The experimental KPFM images were supported by KPFM simulations (Figure 3c, f). The adsorption height of FCl-An on the Au(111) surface was found to be 30 pm higher than that of An (Figure 4a). DFT calculations confirmed the different adsorption heights. The study found that the adsorption energy of An on Au(111) was higher than that of FCl-An. SAPT0 analysis showed that the induction energy was larger for An than for FCl-An. The induced electron density was more significant in the interface between An and the metallic substrate compared to the FCl-An/Au(111) interface (Figure 4b, c).

Interpretation Implications
The findings confirm the existence of the π-hole in FCl-An and demonstrate its influence on the molecule's interaction with a metallic surface. The "bow-tie" pattern in the KPFM images directly visualizes the heterogeneous charge distribution associated with the π-hole. The increased adsorption height and the reduced induction energy of FCl-An compared to An suggest that the π-hole affects the electrostatic interaction between the molecule and the substrate. The results highlight the importance of submolecular charge distribution in determining the physical and chemical properties of molecules and their interactions. The study supports the theoretical predictions regarding the existence and impact of π-holes, providing experimental evidence for their role in molecular behavior.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the focus on a single molecule, FCl-An, and the comparison with An. The generalizability of the findings to other molecular systems with π-holes is not directly addressed. The study does not mention the random seed used for simulations. The study does not address the external validity of the findings. The study's conclusions are based on a limited number of molecules. The study does not mention the demographics of the sample. The study does not provide information about the statistical power of the analysis. The study does not provide information about the effect size of the findings.

Claims
[{"description": "KPFM can directly visualize the π-hole in FCl-An molecules.", "supporting_evidence": "KPFM images of FCl-An molecules revealed a distinct \"bow-tie\" pattern, indicative of the π-hole, which was absent in An molecules (Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This finding provides direct experimental evidence for the existence of the π-hole, confirming theoretical predictions."}, {"description": "The presence of the π-hole in FCl-An influences its adsorption behavior on the Au(111) surface.", "supporting_evidence": "FCl-An molecules exhibited an adsorption height 30 pm higher than An molecules on the Au(111) surface (Figure 4a).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the π-hole affects the electrostatic interaction between the molecule and the metallic substrate."}, {"description": "The adsorption energy of An on Au(111) is higher than that of FCl-An.", "supporting_evidence": "DFT and SAPT0 calculations support this claim, showing a stronger interaction between An and the Au(111) surface compared to FCl-An.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This is due to the π-hole increasing the ionization potential of the molecule, which inhibits the induction of the charge density at the molecule/metal interface."}, {"description": "The induced electron density is more significant in the interface between An and the metallic substrate compared to the FCl-An/Au(111) interface.", "supporting_evidence": "DFT calculations show a more significant induced electron density in the interface between An and the metallic substrate compared to the FCl-An/Au(111) interface (Figure 4b, c).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This is a consequence of attractive electrostatic interaction between the molecule and the surface."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 3 is critical as it displays the experimental and simulated KPFM images. The x and y axes represent the spatial dimensions of the surface, and the color scale represents the LCPD. The "bow-tie" pattern in the FCl-An images directly demonstrates the visualization of the π-hole. Figure 4a shows the Δf-z spectroscopy, which reveals the difference in adsorption height between An and FCl-An. Figures 4b and 4c represent calculated induced electron density between An and FCl-An molecules and the Au (111) surfaces.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the direct experimental visualization of a π-hole in a single molecule using KPFM, confirming theoretical predictions and opening up possibilities for studying submolecular charge distributions. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the KPFM images, which reveal a distinct "bow-tie" pattern in FCl-An, indicating the π-hole, and the difference in adsorption height between FCl-An and An molecules. (3) The primary limitation is the focus on a single molecule, FCl-An. Further research should investigate the impact of the π-hole on other molecular systems and explore its role in various chemical and physical processes.