Executive Summary
This study investigated the effects of plant growth regulators (PGRs) and nitrogen fertilization on the growth and development of *Brachiaria decumbens* cv. Basilisk. The research examined the impact of seed treatment with PGRs (auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellin) and different nitrogen fertilization methods (soil, foliar, and combined) on germination, dry matter yield, and physiological composition. The study found that PGRs, particularly at 10.3 mL.kg⁻¹ for germination and 12.8 mL.kg⁻¹ for root dry mass production, enhanced germination and initial growth. Coated seeds performed better with lower levels of PGRs, with the most efficient levels for leaf and pseudostem yields being 8.85 and 9.57 mL.kg⁻¹, respectively. Soil nitrogen fertilization increased dry mass production across all plant structures and root volume. The combination of PGRs and soil fertilization further improved dry matter yields. The study suggests that the use of PGRs and nitrogen fertilization can improve pasture establishment by promoting germination, increasing mass yields, and enhancing photosynthetic processes. A key limitation is the lack of information on the long-term effects and economic viability of these treatments.

Research Context
The study addresses the need for improved pasture establishment methods, especially given the challenges posed by adverse climatic conditions and the need for rapid recovery of degraded pastures. The use of synthetic growth promoters, similar to phytohormones, is explored as a potential solution. Prior research has focused on phytohormones like auxins, gibberellins, and cytokinins, which regulate plant homeostasis. However, the economic viability of high concentrations of gibberellin is questionable. This work aims to evaluate the combined effects of PGRs and nitrogen fertilization, which have been shown to influence plant growth and development. The study builds on existing knowledge of PGRs' and nitrogen's roles in plant growth, aiming to optimize their application for improved pasture production.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What are the effects of seed treatment with plant growth regulators (PGRs) and nitrogen fertilization methods on the growth and development of *Brachiaria decumbens* cv. Basilisk? The study hypothesized that the application of PGRs would improve germination characteristics, dry matter yield, and physiological composition. It was predicted that the use of PGRs would increase germination percentages and root dry mass production. It was also hypothesized that nitrogen fertilization would enhance dry mass production and photosynthetic processes. The study aimed to determine the optimal levels of PGRs and the most effective nitrogen fertilization methods. This work differs from prior studies by evaluating the combined effects of PGRs and different nitrogen fertilization strategies, aiming to provide practical recommendations for pasture management. The study also investigated the interaction between seed type (coated vs. conventional) and PGR application.

Methodological Details
The experiment was conducted at the Forage and Pasture Research Center, greenhouse, and Laboratory of Anatomy and Ecological Plant Physiology (LAFIEP) at the State University of Southwestern Bahia (UESB) from June to September 2017. The study employed a 2 x 4 factorial scheme in a completely randomized design (CRD). Two seed types (coated and conventional) and four levels of PGR (0, 8, 16, 24 mL.kg⁻¹ of seed) were used. The PGR comprised auxin (0.05 mg.L⁻¹), cytokinin (0.09 mg.L⁻¹), and gibberellin (0.05 mg.L⁻¹). Seeds were imbibed with PGR for two hours, then placed on filter paper moistened with distilled water, with 25 seeds per replicate and four replicates per treatment. For initial growth assessments, sowing was performed in seedling trays with sterilized coconut residue. A second experiment evaluated untreated and PGR-treated seeds (0 and 24 mL.kg⁻¹) with four nitrogen fertilization methods (no fertilization, soil, foliar, and combined). Eight treatments were used, with four plants per replicate and four replicates per treatment, totaling 32 experimental units. At 30 days after sowing (DAS), a standardization cut was performed at 15 cm. Fertilization was applied after the cut, with recommendations of 75 kg.ha⁻¹ N and 3 L.ha⁻¹ for soil and foliar fertilization, respectively. Data analysis was performed using the MIXED procedure of SAS, with significance declared at p ≤ 0.05. Germination percentage and germination speed index (GSI) were determined by daily counts for 14 days. Dry mass production was determined at the end of the experimental period. Chlorophylls and carotenoids were measured using absorption spectrophotometry.

Procedures Architectures
The experiment utilized a completely randomized design with a 2x4 factorial scheme, examining two seed types (coated and conventional) and four levels of plant growth regulator (PGR) application (0, 8, 16, and 24 mL.kg⁻¹). The PGR consisted of auxin, cytokinin, and gibberellin. Seeds were treated with PGRs for approximately two hours before germination tests. The germination was carried out under a 12h photoperiod and at constant temperature (28ºC). For the initial growth assessments, seeds were sown in seedling trays with sterilized coconut residue. A second experiment investigated the effects of PGRs (0 and 24 mL.kg⁻¹) combined with four nitrogen fertilization methods: no fertilization, soil fertilization, foliar fertilization, and a combination of soil and foliar fertilization. Fertilization was applied after a standardization cut at 30 DAS, with 75 kg.ha⁻¹ N and 3 L.ha⁻¹ for soil and foliar nitrogen fertilization, respectively. Data were analyzed using the MIXED procedure of SAS. The study used a Mangelsdorf germination chamber (MA-401) and seedling trays for germination and initial growth assessments. The soil used was collected at 0-20 cm depth, disintegrated and grounded to pass through a 4-mm sieve. The composition of the foliar fertilizer is described in Table 1. The experimental setup involved controlled environmental conditions in a greenhouse and laboratory settings.

Key Results
The interaction between seed type and growth regulator levels was not significant for germination and germination speed index (GSI). Seeds treated with 10.3 mL.kg⁻¹ PGR promoted greater germination. Coated seeds had higher germination values (Table 2). For the number of leaves and tillers, and root dry mass production, the interaction between seed type and growth regulator level was not significant. Seeds treated with 12.8 mL.kg⁻¹ of growth regulator resulted in higher root dry mass production (Table 3). There was an interaction between seed type and the use of growth regulator on leaf and pseudostem dry mass production. Coated seeds showed higher leaf and pseudostem dry mass production in the absence of treatment or at the lowest level tested (8.0 mL.kg⁻¹), corresponding to the treatment using 8.85 and 9.57 mL.kg⁻¹, respectively. Conventional seeds required higher levels of the treatment for leaf and pseudostem dry mass production, being 15.5 and 18.1 mL.kg⁻¹, respectively (Table 4). The interaction between the use of PGR and nitrogen fertilization methods was significant for dry mass production of leaf, stem, shoot, and root (Table 5). Soil fertilization resulted in higher yields for the evaluated structures regardless of PGR. The use of PGR increased root dry mass production only when combined with multiple fertilization. The use of PGR influenced chlorophyll a levels, and fertilization methods influenced chlorophyll a, b and carotenoids (Table 6).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that PGRs, particularly at specific concentrations, can enhance germination and root development in *Brachiaria decumbens*. The study supports the idea that the combination of PGRs and nitrogen fertilization can improve pasture establishment by promoting growth and increasing photosynthetic efficiency. The results align with the understanding that PGRs influence hormonal balance and biosynthesis, impacting plant growth. The study highlights the importance of the interaction between seed type and PGR application, with coated seeds showing better performance at lower PGR levels. The study also reinforces the role of nitrogen in maximizing photosynthetic processes and growth rates. The findings suggest that the use of exogenous hormonal compounds acts on the organogenesis of plant tissues and increases the development of *Brachiaria decumbens*.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not specify the exact statistical tests used beyond the MIXED procedure and Tukey test, nor does it report the random seed used for the analysis. The study's external validity may be limited due to the specific environmental conditions of the greenhouse and the experimental site. The study does not provide information on the long-term effects of the treatments or the economic viability of using PGRs and nitrogen fertilization. There is a lack of detail on the specific mechanisms by which PGRs and nitrogen fertilization interact to influence plant growth. The study does not address potential environmental impacts of the treatments.

Claims
[{"description": "Seed treatment with 10.3 mL.kg⁻¹ of PGR significantly increased germination percentages in *Brachiaria decumbens* cv. Basilisk.", "supporting_evidence": "The regression analysis estimated that the treatment of seeds with 10.3 mL.kg⁻¹ promotes greater germination.", "contradicting_evidence": "The interaction between seed type and growth regulator levels was not significant for germination.", "implications": "This suggests that PGRs can be used to improve the initial establishment of pasture, although the optimal concentration may need to be carefully controlled."}, {"description": "Coated seeds demonstrated higher germination percentages and germination speed index (GSI) compared to conventional seeds.", "supporting_evidence": "Coated seeds had higher values for both germination and GSI (Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that seed coating can enhance seed quality and improve the rate of germination and seedling emergence."}, {"description": "Treatment of *Brachiaria decumbens* cv. Basilisk seeds with 12.8 mL.kg⁻¹ of growth regulator resulted in higher root dry mass production.", "supporting_evidence": "Based on the estimated equation, the treatment of seeds with 12.8 mL.kg⁻¹ of growth regulator resulted in higher root dry mass production (Table 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that PGRs can stimulate root development, which is crucial for nutrient and water uptake."}, {"description": "Soil nitrogen fertilization resulted in higher dry mass productions of leaf, stem, shoot and root, as well as for root volume.", "supporting_evidence": "Soil N-fertilization resulted in higher dry mass productions of leaf, stem, shoot and root, as well as for root volume.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of nitrogen as an essential nutrient for plant growth and development."}, {"description": "The combination of PGRs and soil fertilization resulted in higher dry mass yields of leaf, stem, shoot, and root.", "supporting_evidence": "Dry mass production of stem, leaf, and shoot was greater when the use of PGR and soil fertilization were combined.", "contradicting_evidence": "The use of PGR reduced leaf, stem, and shoot production when combined with multiple fertilization (soil + foliar).", "implications": "This suggests that the combined application of PGRs and soil fertilization can have a synergistic effect on plant growth, although the specific combination may need to be optimized."}]

Ethical Considerations
The study was conducted at a university research center and did not involve human subjects or animals. The use of PGRs and nitrogen fertilization may have environmental implications, which are not discussed in detail.

Key Figures Tables
Table 2 shows that coated seeds had higher germination percentages. Table 3 shows that treatment of seeds with 12.8 mL.kg⁻¹ of growth regulator resulted in higher root dry mass production. Table 4 shows the interaction between seed type and the use of growth regulator on leaf and pseudostem dry mass production. Table 5 shows the interaction between the use of PGR and nitrogen fertilization methods was significant for dry mass production of leaf, stem, shoot, and root. Table 6 shows the effect of PGR and fertilization methods on chlorophyll a, b and carotenoids.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the demonstration that the combined use of plant growth regulators (PGRs) and soil nitrogen fertilization can significantly enhance the growth and development of *Brachiaria decumbens* cv. Basilisk, leading to increased dry matter yields. (2) The strongest evidence supporting this claim is the finding that the combination of PGRs and soil fertilization resulted in higher dry mass yields of leaf, stem, shoot, and root, as well as the increased germination percentages with the use of PGRs. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of information on the long-term effects and economic viability of these treatments, and the lack of detail on the specific mechanisms by which PGRs and nitrogen fertilization interact. Future research should focus on assessing the long-term impacts, optimizing the application of PGRs and nitrogen, and exploring the environmental implications of these practices.