Executive Summary
This study presents a mechanochemical method for synthesizing potassium calcium phosphate bioceramics (K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4) from eggshell waste (calcite) and KH2PO4, aiming to create an eco-friendly fertilizer. The process utilizes a solvent-free, high-energy ball milling approach. The research investigated the impact of milling time and speed on the formation of the desired phosphate phases, characterizing the resulting materials using X-ray diffraction (XRD), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). Solubility kinetics were assessed in citric acid solution and soil, comparing the release behavior of the synthesized material to KH2PO4 and eggshell. Key findings indicate that the mechanochemical process successfully produces potassium calcium phosphates, which exhibit a delayed release of phosphorus and potassium compared to KH2PO4, and enhanced calcium bioavailability compared to eggshell. Soil release experiments confirmed these findings, with the synthesized material demonstrating a controlled release of nutrients, potentially due to hydroxyapatite formation. The study highlights the potential of waste materials in creating sustainable fertilizers, offering improved nutrient management through controlled release mechanisms. A limitation is the lack of investigation into the optimal application rates and long-term effects of the fertilizer in various soil types.

Research Context
The production of new materials is increasingly linked to reverse logistics, emphasizing the reuse of waste materials. Eggshells, a significant food industry waste, are an excellent source of calcium carbonate (calcite). Prior research has explored mechanochemical synthesis, using mechanical energy to promote chemical reactions in solid-state materials. However, existing studies have not reported the mechanochemical production of potassium calcium hydrogen phosphate (K3CaH(PO4)2) and potassium calcium phosphate (CaKPO4) from eggshell and KH2PO4. This work addresses the gap by investigating a novel method for producing these specific phosphates, which could serve as a soil conditioner and smart release fertilizer, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional fertilizers. The closest prior approaches include studies on hydroxyapatite synthesis from eggshells, but these methods often use phosphoric acid solutions instead of powder phosphate salts.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a mechanochemical process can synthesize potassium calcium phosphates from eggshell and KH2PO4, and if so, what are the resulting nutrient release characteristics. The primary hypothesis is that the mechanochemical process will successfully produce K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4, leading to a controlled release of phosphorus, potassium, and calcium compared to the individual precursors. Alternative hypotheses include that the milling parameters (time and speed) will influence the phase composition and nutrient release profiles, and that the synthesized material will exhibit different solubility kinetics in citric acid solution and soil. The study aims to determine if the synthesized phosphates can function as a smart release fertilizer, improving nutrient management. The research differs from prior work by focusing on the mechanochemical synthesis of specific potassium calcium phosphates from eggshell and KH2PO4, rather than hydroxyapatite or other calcium phosphate compounds, and by evaluating their release behavior in both solution and soil.

Methodological Details
The study employed a mechanochemical approach to synthesize potassium calcium phosphates from eggshell and KH2PO4. Eggshells were collected, washed, and dried before being ground. KH2PO4 (PA grade, Vetec) was used as a precursor. The milling process was performed using a Fritsch Pulverisette 7 high-energy ball mill with a 250 ml zirconia bowl and 5 zirconia balls (15 mm diameter). The weight ratio of eggshell to KH2PO4 was 1:1 (w/w). Milling experiments were conducted at 600 rpm for varying durations (15 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 3 h, 6 h, 12 h, and 24 h), and at varying speeds (100, 200, 400, and 600 rpm) for 2 hours. The mixture corresponded to 0.75 mmol of KH2PO4 and 1 mmol of CaCO3. The resulting samples were characterized using X-ray diffraction (XRD, Shimadzu XRD 6000), nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) with magic-angle spinning (MAS, Bruker Avance III HD), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA, TA Instruments Q500), and differential scanning calorimetry (DSC, TA Instruments Q100). Nutrient content was determined by acid digestion (H2SO4/H2O2) followed by atomic absorption (K and Ca) and colorimetric (P) methods. Solubility kinetics were evaluated in a 2 wt% citric acid solution, with pellets (100 mg/L of P) placed in 10 mL beakers immersed in 300 mL of solution. The system was kept at 25°C under magnetic stirring, and aliquots were collected over 30 days. Soil release essays were performed in Petri dishes and plastic containers with sandy soil (75% water saturation). The P radial diffusion was evaluated. The soil was analyzed at 3, 7, 15, and 30 days, with potassium and calcium extracted by HCl and KCl methods, respectively, and phosphorus extracted using the Mehlich 1 method. Phosphorus was quantified using the molybdenum blue colorimetric method, and potassium and calcium were quantified by flame atomic absorption spectroscopy (FAAS, PerkinElmer PinAAcle 900T). No preregistration was performed, and multiple-comparison corrections were not mentioned.

Procedures Architectures
The core procedure involved mechanochemical synthesis using a high-energy ball mill (Fritsch Pulverisette 7). Eggshell and KH2PO4 were mixed in a 1:1 weight ratio and milled under varying conditions of time and speed. The mill used a 250 ml zirconia bowl and 5 zirconia balls (15 mm diameter). The milling process was conducted at 600 rpm for durations ranging from 15 minutes to 24 hours, and at speeds from 100 to 600 rpm for 2 hours. The resulting powders were characterized using XRD, NMR, TGA, and DSC. XRD analysis used a Shimadzu XRD 6000 diffractometer with a Cu Kα incident beam (λ = 0.1546 nm) and a scanning speed of 2° min-1. DSC analysis used a TA Q100 Controller with a refrigerated cooling system. TGA was performed using a TA Instruments Q500 analyzer under synthetic air flow. 31P NMR MAS analysis was carried out using a Bruker Avance III HD equipment, with the sample rotated at 10KHz. The synthesized material was pelletized and tested for nutrient release in a 2% citric acid solution and in soil. Soil release experiments were conducted in Petri dishes and plastic containers. The study used image software (GNU Image Manipulation Program, v. 2.6.11) to analyze the P diffusion zone. The models used to fit the nutrient release curves were the linear form of pseudo-first order, pseudo-second order and intraparticle diffusion models. The study did not involve the development of any novel architectures or systems; it focused on the synthesis and characterization of a material.

Key Results
XRD analysis revealed that milling KH2PO4 and eggshell (98% CaCO3) at 400 rpm for 2 hours produced a mixture of K3CaH(PO4)2 and possibly CaKPO4 (Figure 1). Milling time and speed directly correlated with energy input and reaction progress. TGA showed two main loss events for KH2PO4, and three for the milled samples (Figure 2). 31P NMR MAS spectra of the milled samples showed shifts indicating the formation of calcium phosphate compounds, including hydroxyapatite and H(PO4)25- species (Figure 4). Solubility kinetics in citric acid solution showed that the milled samples exhibited slower phosphorus and potassium release compared to KH2PO4, but faster calcium release compared to eggshell (Figure 5). The pseudo-second order model provided the best fit for phosphorus and potassium release, with a decrease in the kinetic constant from KH2PO4 to milled samples (Table 1). Soil release essays showed that the sample milled for 2h/600 rpm presented a longer delay in phosphorus release compared to KH2PO4 (Figure 6). The P radial diffusion profile from sample milled for 2h/600 rpm is intermediate, 34% faster than struvite and 22% slower than precursor at the end of 30 days. There was an increase in bioavailable calcium for the milled sample (2 h/600 rpm) compared to the eggshell precursor. The formation of hydroxyapatite was observed in soil conditions from 3 to 30 days (Figure 7).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the mechanochemical process successfully synthesized potassium calcium phosphates, which act as a smart release fertilizer. The delayed release of phosphorus and potassium from the synthesized material, compared to KH2PO4, indicates improved nutrient management. The increased bioavailability of calcium from the milled samples, compared to eggshell, further supports this conclusion. The formation of hydroxyapatite in the soil contributes to the controlled release of nutrients, acting as a long-term slow-release fertilizer. The study implies that the mechanochemical approach offers a sustainable method for converting waste materials into effective fertilizers, enhancing nutrient use efficiency. The proposed mechanism involves the formation of K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4, which influence the solubility and release behavior of the nutrients. The scope conditions are limited to the specific eggshell source, KH2PO4, and the milling parameters used in the study. The understanding shifts towards the potential of mechanochemical processes for creating eco-friendly fertilizers.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the lack of investigation into the optimal application rates and long-term effects of the fertilizer in various soil types. The study did not report the random seed used for the experiments. The study's findings are specific to the materials and milling parameters used, and may not be directly generalizable to other eggshell sources or phosphate compounds. The study does not address the environmental impact of the fertilizer production process beyond the use of waste materials. The study does not provide information about the soil types in which the fertilizer would be most effective. The study did not include a cost-benefit analysis of the fertilizer production process. The study does not address the potential for heavy metal contamination from the eggshell source. The study does not investigate the effects of the fertilizer on plant growth or yield. The study does not mention any conflicts with prior literature.

Claims
[{"description": "The mechanochemical process successfully synthesized potassium calcium phosphates (K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4) from eggshell and KH2PO4.", "supporting_evidence": "XRD analysis showed the presence of K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4 after milling eggshell and KH2PO4 for 2 hours at 400 rpm (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "Milling times and speeds below these parameters did not result in the formation of these phosphates.", "implications": "This supports the feasibility of using a mechanochemical approach for producing eco-friendly fertilizers from waste materials."}, {"description": "The synthesized potassium calcium phosphates exhibit a delayed release of phosphorus and potassium compared to KH2PO4.", "supporting_evidence": "The kinetic study in citric acid solution showed that the milled samples had a slower release of phosphorus and potassium compared to KH2PO4 (Figure 5). The pseudo-second order model provided the best fit for phosphorus and potassium release, with a decrease in the kinetic constant from KH2PO4 to milled samples (Table 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "The release of calcium was faster for the milled samples compared to the eggshell precursor.", "implications": "This suggests that the synthesized material can function as a smart release fertilizer, improving nutrient management."}, {"description": "The synthesized material enhances the bioavailability of calcium compared to the eggshell precursor.", "supporting_evidence": "The kinetic study in citric acid solution showed a faster release of calcium from the milled samples compared to eggshell (Figure 5). Soil release essays showed an increase in bioavailable calcium for the milled sample (2 h/600 rpm) compared to the eggshell precursor (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the mechanochemical process can improve the utilization of calcium from eggshell waste."}, {"description": "The formation of hydroxyapatite (Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2) was observed in soil conditions, contributing to the controlled release of nutrients.", "supporting_evidence": "Hydroxyapatite was identified from 3 to 30 days in soil conditions (Figure 7).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the synthesized material acts as a long-term slow-release fertilizer."}]

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study investigated the effect of milling time and speed on the formation of the desired phosphate phases. The results showed that milling time and speed directly correlated with energy input and reaction progress.

Ethical Considerations
The study used waste materials (eggshells) and did not involve any human or animal subjects. The study did not mention any ethical approvals or risks.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 (XRD patterns) is critical, showing the formation of K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4 under specific milling conditions, with the x-axis representing the 2θ angle and the y-axis representing the relative intensity. Figure 5 (Solubility kinetics) illustrates the release behavior of nutrients in citric acid solution, with the x-axis representing time and the y-axis representing the concentration of released nutrients. Figure 6 (Soil release essays) shows the temporal profile for the precursor KH2PO4 and sample 2 h/600 rpm in soil, with the x-axis representing time and the y-axis representing the concentration of released nutrients. Table 1 (Kinetic parameters) shows the kinetic parameters for the nutrient release models.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of a mechanochemical method to synthesize potassium calcium phosphates from eggshell waste and KH2PO4, creating an eco-friendly fertilizer. (2) The strongest evidence is the XRD analysis (Figure 1) which confirmed the formation of K3CaH(PO4)2 and CaKPO4, and the kinetic studies (Figure 5, Table 1) which demonstrated a controlled release of phosphorus and potassium and an increase in the bioavailability of calcium. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of investigation into the optimal application rates and long-term effects of the fertilizer in various soil types, which presents an open problem for future research, including field trials to assess the fertilizer's efficacy in promoting plant growth and yield.