Executive Summary
This paper introduces a robotic system for automated electrochemical kinetic analysis and investigates the CO2 electroreduction reaction (CO2RR) mechanism on immobilized metal tetrapyrroles. The robotic system automates the collection of electrochemical rate data by sequentially testing up to ten electrochemical cells, each with different electrodes, electrolytes, and applied voltages. The study focuses on cobalt phthalocyanine (CoPc), cobalt tetraphenylporphyrin (CoTPP), and iron phthalocyanine (FePc). The primary finding is that the CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences change with applied potential, indicating complex reaction mechanisms not easily analyzed using traditional Tafel and reactant order dependence analyses. The robotic system allows for more efficient data collection, enabling the use of cohesive kinetic analysis, which is crucial for understanding complex reaction mechanisms. The study reveals that electrolyte poisoning, mixed control, and surface coverage effects are important considerations for CO2RR at metal tetrapyrroles. The main limitation is that the models used only qualitatively capture the observed trends, but do not quantitatively fit all experimental data. The work highlights the importance of automation and cohesive kinetic analysis in dissecting electrocatalytic reaction complexity.

Research Context
Traditional kinetic analysis in electrocatalysis relies on linearizing rate data, which simplifies assumptions and may miss complex phenomena like coverage effects and mixed rate control. Prior work has shown that Tafel slopes across CO2RR catalysts do not show a strong preference for commonly interpretable values, suggesting the presence of additional mechanistic phenomena. Cohesive kinetic analysis, more common in thermocatalysis, allows for the consideration of complexities by using large volumes of data collected over wide ranges of reaction conditions. Automation is a tool for accelerating and standardizing workflows. However, most automation strategies in electrocatalysis are tailored towards high-throughput catalyst screening rather than kinetic analysis. This work addresses the need for automated kinetic analysis workflows by developing a robotic system that automates electrochemical reaction rate data collection.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: Can automation-assisted kinetic analysis reveal non-idealities in CO2 electroreduction mechanisms? The study hypothesizes that complex reaction mechanisms, not amenable to common Tafel and order dependence analyses, are prevalent across immobilized metal tetrapyrrole electrocatalysts. The study predicts that the CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences will exhibit non-linear and/or potential-dependent behaviors. The study also predicts that phenomena such as electrolyte poisoning, mixed control, and coverage effects will influence the observed kinetic behavior. If the CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences are linear and independent of applied potential, it would suggest simpler reaction mechanisms. This work differs from prior studies by utilizing automation to facilitate cohesive kinetic analysis, enabling the interrogation of complex reaction mechanisms that are not easily analyzed using traditional methods. The outcomes of the study would support the hypothesis if the observed kinetic behaviors are complex and not easily explained by simple mechanisms.

Methodological Details
The study employed a robotic system to automate electrochemical reaction rate data collection. The system consisted of a single cell body and ten cell pan pairs, each housing a carbon paper working electrode. The working electrodes were prepared by drop-casting CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc catalysts onto carbon paper at specific loadings. Electrolytes were prepared using Na2CO3 and NaClO4 stock solutions, bubbled with CO2, and mixed to achieve desired bicarbonate concentrations. The robot operated by sequentially performing electrochemistry on each cell pan. The cell body moved horizontally and vertically to interact with each cell pan. The cell body closed onto the cell pan, pumped electrolyte, initiated gas flow, applied voltage, and initiated online product quantification via gas chromatography. The reference electrode was Ag/AgCl, and the counter electrode was Pt wire. Data files were automatically uploaded to an SQL database. A Python script accessed files with relevant run conditions and outputted average current, partial CO current, and partial H2 current as a function of operating condition to an Excel document. The cell design was a three-electrode, undivided compartment cell. The lack of a membrane allowed for more facile liquid and gas management. The study compared the data with literature precedent to evaluate data robustness. The study did not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study used the same electrode form factor as conventional electrochemical sandwich cell testing. The study did not report the random seed or demographics.

Procedures Architectures
The robotic system automates electrochemical experiments. The system consists of a single cell body with a reference and counter electrode, and a line of ten cell pan pairs, each holding a working electrode. The cell body moves horizontally to sequentially test each cell pan and vertically to open and close onto each pan (Figure 1A). For each electrolysis, the robot closes the cell body onto the cell pan and pumps electrolyte through the "electrolyte in" port (Figure 1B). The electrolyte source can be individual vials or a common reservoir (Figure S2). In this study, a common reservoir was used. After electrolyte flow, the robot initiates gas flow, waits, applies voltage, and initiates online product quantification using a gas chromatograph connected to the "gas out" port (Figure 1B). When the electrolysis is complete, electrolyte is pumped out, and the cell opens. The cell body is cleaned by moving and closing onto a wash station (Figure S3). The user loads working electrodes, electrolyte, and electrolysis specifications into an Excel queue file. The robot automates sequential testing and uploads data to an SQL database. The system allows for different electrodes, electrolytes, and gas-phase reactant compositions for each experiment. The robot design is novel in its ability to automate kinetic analysis workflows by allowing for different conditions for each individual experiment. The robot's versatility is essential for the kinetic analysis, which involves testing under a wide range of different operating conditions.

Key Results
The study found that the CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences were non-linear and/or changed depending on the applied voltage for CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc catalysts. For CoPc and CoTPP, the apparent dependence on bicarbonate was most negative at less reductive potentials and became positive at more reductive potentials (Figures 2A and 2B). For FePc, greater bicarbonate inhibition occurred at more reductive potentials (Figure 2C). The CO2 order dependence for CoPc appeared first order (Figure 3A). For CoTPP, the apparent order in CO2 was slightly below one and decreased at more reductive potentials (Figure 3D). For FePc, the apparent CO2 dependence was more attenuated at less reductive potentials, and the CO2 order dependence curves for the two different potentials intersected (Figure 3E). The newly measured rates towards CO production were up to ten times lower than previously reported (Figures S7 and S8). Faradaic efficiencies toward CO were lower than expected, with values typically under 30% (Figure S10A). The study found that previously reported kinetic trends in CO production were preserved (Figure S7) and that the newly collected data was well-correlated with that of the previous work (Figure S8). The study observed relatively high FEs toward HER, typically around 30 to 60% (Figure S10).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that complex reaction mechanisms, including electrolyte poisoning, mixed control, and surface coverage effects, are important considerations for CO2RR at metal tetrapyrroles. The observed non-linear and voltage-dependent CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences indicate that traditional Tafel and reactant order dependence analyses may be insufficient for understanding these systems. The study proposes that the observed kinetic behaviors can be explained by models that invoke bicarbonate poisoning and potential-dependent mixed control. The study implies that ostensibly opposing kinetic observations in the literature might be reconciled by differences in operating conditions. The work highlights that kinetic phenomena such as electrolyte poisoning, coverage effects, and mixed control are important considerations for CO2RR at metal tetrapyrroles. The study suggests that the convergence of automation with cohesive kinetic analysis provides an informative experimental strategy for dissecting electrocatalytic reaction complexity.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's findings contradict the assumptions of traditional kinetic analysis methods, which rely on linearization and simplification. The study acknowledges that the models used only qualitatively capture the observed trends, but do not quantitatively fit all the experimental data. The study's cell design, a one-compartment cell, comes with considerations such as crosstalk between working and counter electrodes. The study observed incomplete Faradaic efficiency closure, with an average of only c.a. 60% attributable to CO and H2 formation. The study did not report the random seed, which could affect the reproducibility of the study. The study did not mention the demographics of the samples. The study acknowledges that flow configuration can have unexpected influence over measured kinetics, even in ostensibly non-transport-limited regimes. The study's results are limited by the fact that the models do not quantitatively fit all of the experimental data.

Claims
[{"description": "The robotic system enables automated collection of electrochemical reaction rate data for heterogeneous electrocatalysis.", "supporting_evidence": "The robotic system automates sequential testing of up to ten electrochemical cells, each with different electrodes, electrolytes, and gas-phase reactant compositions. The system uploads data to an SQL database.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This automation improves the efficiency and consistency of data collection, facilitating cohesive kinetic analysis."}, {"description": "The CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences change with applied potential for CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc catalysts.", "supporting_evidence": "For CoPc and CoTPP, the apparent dependence on bicarbonate is most negative at less reductive potentials and becomes positive at more reductive potentials (Figures 2A and 2B). For FePc, greater bicarbonate inhibition occurred at more reductive potentials (Figure 2C). For CoPc, the CO2 order dependence appeared first order (Figure 3A). For CoTPP, the apparent order in CO2 was slightly below one and decreased at more reductive potentials (Figure 3D). For FePc, the apparent CO2 dependence was more attenuated at less reductive potentials, and the CO2 order dependence curves for the two different potentials intersected (Figure 3E).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "These non-linear and potential-dependent trends indicate complex reaction mechanisms not captured by traditional methods."}, {"description": "Electrolyte poisoning, mixed control, and surface coverage effects are important considerations for CO2RR at metal tetrapyrroles.", "supporting_evidence": "The observed kinetic behaviors can be explained by models that invoke bicarbonate poisoning and potential-dependent mixed control.", "contradicting_evidence": "The models used only qualitatively capture the observed trends, but do not quantitatively fit all the experimental data.", "implications": "These phenomena highlight the complexity of CO2RR mechanisms and the need for advanced analytical techniques."}, {"description": "The newly measured rates towards CO production were up to ten times lower than previously reported.", "supporting_evidence": "The study compared the data with literature precedent.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of standardized experimental conditions."}]

Data Code Availability
All experimental data reported in this work (xlsx). https://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-h0zh1

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1A shows the overall robot design. Figure 1B illustrates the cell design. Figures 2A-C show bicarbonate dependence for CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc. Figures 2D-G show models of bicarbonate dependence. Figures 3A-C show CO2 dependence for CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc. Figures 3D-E show models of CO2 dependence. These figures are critical for understanding the complex kinetic behaviors observed and the proposed mechanisms.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the introduction of a robotic system that automates electrochemical kinetic analysis, enabling more efficient data collection and the use of cohesive kinetic analysis. (2) The strongest evidence is the observation that the CO2 and bicarbonate order dependences change with applied potential for CoPc, CoTPP, and FePc catalysts, indicating complex reaction mechanisms not easily analyzed using traditional methods (Figures 2 and 3). (3) The primary limitation is that the models used only qualitatively capture the observed trends, but do not quantitatively fit all experimental data. Future work could focus on developing more accurate models and expanding the robotic system's capabilities, such as incorporating a membrane to separate anode and cathode.