Executive Summary
This study introduces a multiplex PCR-based method for highly sensitive and full-genome interrogation of SARS-CoV-2, followed by next-generation sequencing (NGS). The method utilizes 343 primer pairs to amplify the entire SARS-CoV-2 genome, enabling detection at low copy numbers. The authors developed a mathematical model suggesting that the multiplex PCR approach can detect 1.15 copies of the virus at 95% probability, surpassing the sensitivity of RT-PCR. The method was validated using plasmids containing SARS-CoV-2 gene sequences and subsequently applied to 13 nasopharyngeal swab specimens previously confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 via RT-PCR. The method achieved high genome coverage (95-99%) across a range of viral loads (8 to 675,885 RNA copies/µL). Furthermore, the study presents a multiplex PCR-based metagenomic method for detecting SARS-CoV-2 and other pathogens, demonstrating high coverage of SARS-CoV-2 genes within a human gDNA background. The primary finding is the enhanced sensitivity of the multiplex PCR method compared to RT-PCR, enabling comprehensive genomic analysis and mutation detection. The study's novelty lies in the application of multiplex PCR for both sensitive detection and full-genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2, as well as the development of a metagenomic approach with modest sequencing depth. This method is significant because it offers a more sensitive, robust, and cost-effective approach for SARS-CoV-2 detection, mutation analysis, and potentially for identifying novel or emerging pathogens. A limitation is the potential for false intra-host mutations in samples with low viral copy numbers and low sequencing depth.

Research Context
RT-PCR is the standard for diagnosing SARS-CoV-2, but it can miss cases due to low viral loads, sample degradation, or mutations. RT-PCR has been reported to identify only 47-59% of positive cases. Alternative methods are needed for improved sensitivity and broader applicability. Prior methods include RT-PCR, serological testing, and reverse transcription-loop-mediated isothermal amplification. These methods have limitations in sensitivity and the ability to detect degraded viral genomes or new strains. This work addresses the need for a more sensitive and comprehensive detection method by employing a multiplex PCR approach, which can simultaneously amplify numerous targets, potentially detecting degraded viral fragments and tolerating genomic variations.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a multiplex PCR-based method can provide more sensitive and comprehensive detection of SARS-CoV-2 compared to existing methods like RT-PCR. The primary hypothesis is that the multiplex PCR method will exhibit higher sensitivity, allowing for the detection of lower viral copy numbers than RT-PCR. The study also hypothesizes that the multiplex PCR method will enable full-genome sequencing, facilitating the identification of mutations and the surveillance of viral evolution. The study predicts that the multiplex PCR method will achieve higher genome coverage with lower viral loads compared to RT-PCR. The study further explores the potential of a multiplex PCR-based metagenomic method for detecting SARS-CoV-2 and other pathogens. The outcomes that would support the hypotheses include the detection of SARS-CoV-2 at lower copy numbers, higher genome coverage, and successful identification of mutations in clinical samples. The study's approach differs from prior work by using multiplex PCR to simultaneously amplify multiple targets, increasing sensitivity and enabling full-genome sequencing, unlike RT-PCR which targets fewer regions.

Methodological Details
The study employed a multiplex PCR-based method for detecting and sequencing SARS-CoV-2. The study design involved the development and validation of a multiplex PCR assay, followed by its application to clinical samples. The sample size included 13 nasopharyngeal swab specimens from patients previously diagnosed as SARS-CoV-2 positive by RT-PCR. The specimens' viral loads ranged from 8 to 675,885 RNA copies/µL. The study used two plasmids containing the full sequence of the S and N genes of SARS-CoV-2 as controls. The study used cDNA generated from human total RNA. The study used the Illumina MiSeq for sequencing. The study used droplet-based digital PCR (ddPCR) with a QX200 system from Bio-Rad to determine the copy number of the plasmids. The study used two independently developed algorithms to detect mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome. The study used random hexamer-adapters to amplify DNA or cDNA targets in a multiplex PCR reaction for the metagenomic method. The study used Paragon Genomics' background removal reagent to remove non-specific amplification products. The study used Paragon Genomics' reverse transcription reagents to convert RNA into cDNA. The procedure involved designing 343 pairs of specific primers for multiplex PCR. The multiplex PCR products were amplified in a secondary PCR, adding sample indexes and NGS sequencing primers. The PCR products were analyzed by electrophoresis. The study used a mathematical model to estimate the limit of detection (LOD) for SARS-CoV-2. The study used a 20% cutoff for mutation frequency (%AF) to eliminate noise from PCR amplification and sequencing. The study did not specify any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. Ethical considerations included the use of clinical specimens; however, the study does not mention IRB approval or consent.

Procedures Architectures
The study developed a multiplex PCR-based method for SARS-CoV-2 detection and sequencing. The method uses two pools of multiplex PCR primers, with 172 and 171 primer pairs, respectively, to amplify the entire SARS-CoV-2 genome. The average amplicon length is 99 bp. The amplicons span the entire SARS-CoV-2 genome with an average 76 bp gap between adjacent amplicons. The workflow includes a secondary PCR step to add sample indexes and NGS sequencing primers. The PCR products are analyzed by electrophoresis to visualize potential positives. The study also developed a multiplex PCR-based metagenomic method. This method uses random hexamer-adapters to amplify DNA or cDNA targets in a multiplex PCR reaction. The method uses Paragon Genomics' background removal reagent to remove non-specific amplification products. For RNA samples, Paragon Genomics' reverse transcription reagents were used to convert RNA into cDNA. The study used a mathematical model to estimate the limit of detection (LOD) for SARS-CoV-2. The model assumes 99% RT-PCR efficiency and 6% multiplex PCR efficiency. The model was used to estimate the detection limit of RT-PCR and the multiplex PCR method. The study used the Illumina MiSeq for sequencing. The study used two independently developed algorithms to detect mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome. The study used a 20% cutoff for mutation frequency (%AF) to eliminate noise from PCR amplification and sequencing. The study's novel aspect is the application of multiplex PCR for both sensitive detection and full-genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2, as well as the development of a metagenomic approach with modest sequencing depth.

Key Results
The mathematical model predicted that RT-PCR could detect 4.8 copies of SARS-CoV-2 at 95% probability. The multiplex PCR method was estimated to detect 1.15 copies of the virus at 95% probability. The study found that the multiplex PCR method could detect down to 2.8 copies of plasmids. The study observed a 56% probability of detecting 1.1 copies of plasmids using multiplex PCR. The genome coverage was 95% at 100X for 8 copies of virus and 98-99% at 100X for 22 to 675,885 copies of virus. The study found that at least 93% of the genome was covered at 100X with 150,000 total reads and at least 58% of the genome was covered at 100X with 50,000 total reads. The study identified mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome from the 13 specimens. The D614G mutation was found in 11 of the 13 specimens. The metagenomic method achieved >96% coverage of the S and N genes of SARS-CoV-2. The viral bases were 16% of the total recovered bases in the sequencing. The study found that 0% of the obtained sequencing reads from each of the 13 samples were aligned to the genome sequence of any other viral species. The study found that the yield of the libraries started to saturate when the copy number reached 1,700.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the multiplex PCR method is more sensitive than RT-PCR, allowing for the detection of lower viral loads and improved genome coverage. The results support the hypothesis that multiplex PCR can enhance the sensitivity of SARS-CoV-2 detection. The high genome coverage achieved with the multiplex PCR method facilitates accurate mutation detection and phylogenetic studies. The metagenomic method demonstrates the potential for identifying novel pathogens with modest sequencing depth. The study implies that the multiplex PCR approach can improve diagnostic accuracy and enable more comprehensive surveillance of SARS-CoV-2. The findings suggest that the multiplex PCR approach can be used to detect degraded viral genomes and tolerate genomic variations. The study highlights the importance of considering viral copy number and sequencing depth when interpreting intra-host mutations. The study's findings shift the understanding of SARS-CoV-2 detection by providing a more sensitive and comprehensive approach.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's mathematical model assumes 99% RT-PCR efficiency, which may not always be achieved in practice. The study acknowledges that the efficiency of multiplex PCR is lower than the theoretical estimate. The study notes that the interpretation of intra-host mutations obtained with low input number of viral particles and in low sequencing depth data should be done cautiously. The study does not report the random seed used for the analysis. The study does not provide information on the demographics of the patient samples. The study does not mention the specific software versions used for the analysis. The study does not mention the training/test split. The study does not provide information on the specific statistical tests used. The study does not specify the multiple-comparison corrections used. The study acknowledges that some true intra-host mutations with %AF < 20% might be missed. The study's findings may not be generalizable to all SARS-CoV-2 strains due to the specific primer design. The study does not provide information on the specific hardware used for the analysis.

Claims
[{"description": "The multiplex PCR method demonstrates higher sensitivity compared to RT-PCR, enabling the detection of SARS-CoV-2 at lower copy numbers.", "supporting_evidence": "The mathematical model estimated that the multiplex PCR method can detect 1.15 copies of the virus at 95% probability, whereas RT-PCR can detect 4.8 copies at 95% probability (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This enhanced sensitivity can lead to earlier and more accurate diagnoses, particularly in cases with low viral loads."}, {"description": "The multiplex PCR method achieves high genome coverage across a range of viral loads, facilitating comprehensive genomic analysis and mutation detection.", "supporting_evidence": "The study achieved 95-99% genome coverage at 100X for viral loads ranging from 22 to 675,885 RNA copies/µL (Figure 3A).", "contradicting_evidence": "One genome, from the sample with 5,000 estimated viral copies, was covered at 96% for 100X, which was lower than expected.", "implications": "This high coverage enables detailed characterization of viral mutations and phylogenetic studies, aiding in the monitoring of viral evolution and transmission."}, {"description": "The multiplex PCR-based metagenomic method provides high coverage of SARS-CoV-2 genes within a human gDNA background, demonstrating its potential for identifying novel pathogens.", "supporting_evidence": "The metagenomic method achieved >96% coverage of the S and N genes of SARS-CoV-2, with viral bases representing 16% of the total recovered bases in sequencing (Figure 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This approach offers a promising avenue for detecting emerging viral strains and other pathogens, even in the absence of pre-designed primers."}, {"description": "The D614G mutation, associated with increased SARS-CoV-2 virulence, was found in the majority of the clinical specimens analyzed.", "supporting_evidence": "The D614G mutation was found in 11 of the 13 specimens analyzed.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This finding supports the importance of monitoring specific mutations in SARS-CoV-2 for understanding viral evolution and its impact on disease."}, {"description": "The study's findings suggest that low viral copy numbers and low sequencing depth can introduce false intra-host mutations.", "supporting_evidence": "The study observed that the number of apparent intra-host mutations was considerably higher in group 2, which had low copy numbers and low read depth per amplicon (Figure 3E and Supplemental Table 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of considering viral load and sequencing depth when interpreting intra-host mutations to avoid misinterpretations."}]

Data Code Availability
Data and code availability are not mentioned in the paper.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study performed a sub-sampling analysis of the sequencing data to assess the impact of read depth on genome coverage. The study also used two independently developed algorithms to detect mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome. The study used a 20% cutoff for mutation frequency (%AF) to eliminate noise from PCR amplification and sequencing.

Ethical Considerations
The study used nasopharyngeal swab specimens from patients previously diagnosed as SARS-CoV-2 positive by RT-PCR. The study does not mention IRB approval or consent. The study does not explicitly address any ethical risks or mitigations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 presents the mathematical models for RT-PCR and multiplex PCR, illustrating the estimated detection limits. Figure 2 shows the results of the multiplex PCR method using plasmids, demonstrating the wide dynamic range and sensitivity. Figure 3 shows the genome coverage and mutation analysis of the clinical specimens, highlighting the high coverage achieved and the identification of mutations. Figure 4 presents the results of the metagenomic method, showing the coverage of SARS-CoV-2 genes in the context of human gDNA. These figures are critical for understanding the sensitivity, coverage, and utility of the multiplex PCR method.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of a highly sensitive multiplex PCR-based method for SARS-CoV-2 detection and full-genome sequencing, which surpasses the sensitivity of RT-PCR and enables comprehensive genomic analysis.

(2) The strongest evidence supporting the claims is the high genome coverage achieved by the multiplex PCR method, with 95-99% coverage at 100X for viral loads ranging from 22 to 675,885 RNA copies/µL (Figure 3A), and the detection of the D614G mutation in 11 of the 13 specimens.

(3) The primary limitation is the potential for false intra-host mutations in samples with low viral copy numbers and low sequencing depth. Future work could focus on optimizing the method for low viral load samples and improving the accuracy of intra-host mutation analysis.