Executive Summary
This paper presents an improved high-throughput freeze-float system for measuring ice nucleation activity (INA) in droplets. The study aimed to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of a previously developed freeze-float selection platform by incorporating automated droplet generation and a controlled-rate freezer. The researchers used a Biomek 3000 liquid handling system to generate up to 3,800 uniform droplets in a 96-well plate, achieving a polydispersity of 9.2%. These droplets were then subjected to freeze-float selection. The study found that the automated system generated droplets with INA that exhibited similar freezing and floating behavior to the previous system. To improve temperature uniformity, the researchers implemented an Asymptote VIA controlled-rate freezer, which accommodated up to 48 cryovials. The Asymptote freezer showed reduced well-to-well variability in freezing temperature (p = 0.83) and a 36% lower dispersion compared to a generic freezer. The study demonstrates the feasibility of a high-throughput freeze-float system for INA measurement, with improved efficiency and accuracy through automation and controlled cooling. The main limitation was droplet stability during transport, and static electricity caused by frictions caused coalescing. The study's significance lies in its potential for high-throughput screening of ice nucleating agents.

Research Context
The study addresses the need for high-throughput screening (HTS) in ice nucleation research, building upon a previously established freeze-float selection system. Prior methods for measuring ice nucleation, such as those using cuvettes, were limited by low throughput and non-uniform temperature distribution. The introduction of HTS methods, including droplet-based assays, has improved efficiency in biochemical assays. However, interfacing microfluidics with multi-well plates is not trivial. The study aims to overcome these limitations by integrating automated droplet generation and a controlled-rate freezer to improve throughput and accuracy in ice nucleation measurements.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to improve the efficiency and accuracy of a freeze-float system for measuring ice nucleation. The study hypothesizes that automating droplet generation and using a controlled-rate freezer will enhance the system's performance. The study predicted that the automated droplet generation system would produce uniform droplets, leading to more reliable freezing temperature measurements. It was also predicted that the controlled-rate freezer would provide more uniform cooling, reducing well-to-well variability in freezing temperatures. The alternative hypothesis is that the automated system and controlled freezer would not significantly improve the system's performance. This work differs from prior research by integrating automated droplet generation with a controlled-rate freezer to improve the throughput and accuracy of the freeze-float system.

Methodological Details
The study employed a methodological approach to improve a freeze-float system for ice nucleation measurement. The study used two main experimental setups: a 96-well plate system with automated droplet generation and an Asymptote VIA controlled-rate freezer system. The Biomek 3000 liquid handling system (Beckman Coulter, Indianapolis, IN) was used to generate droplets. The study used 96 deep well plates and 1 mL cryovials. The droplets were generated in a silicone oil buoyant layer with 1% silicone surfactant system and HFE-7500 cushion layer. The droplets were 1 µL in volume. The droplet diameters were measured using the Matlab automated circle detection program Droplet_Dispersion.m (Source Code S1). The polydispersity of the droplets was calculated. The study used a commodity freezer and an Asymptote VIA Freeze TM Research controlled rate freezer (Asymptote, Cambridge, UK). The Asymptote freezer accommodated up to 48 × 1 mL cryovials. Each cryovial contained 50 µL of HFE-7500, 1 mL silicone oil with 1% surfactant, and 20 aqueous droplets with 1 mg/mL Snomax marked with fluorescein, and 20 droplets of INA free milli Q water marked with Coomassie Brilliant Blue dye. The freezing temperature distributions were compared using a Kolmogorov-Smirnov test (Python script KStest.ipynb, Source Code S3). The study used 1 mg/mL Snomax. The study did not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study adhered to standard laboratory safety protocols.

Procedures Architectures
The study implemented two primary experimental setups. The first setup involved automated droplet generation using a Biomek 3000 liquid handling system. The Biomek 3000 dispensed 1 µL droplets into a 96-deep-well plate. The droplets were generated at a standard dispensing rate of 1 droplet per 2 seconds. The second setup used an Asymptote VIA controlled-rate freezer. The Asymptote freezer accommodated 48 cryovials. Each cryovial contained three layers: a 50 µL HFE-7500 cushion layer, a 1 mL silicone oil layer with 1% surfactant, and 20 aqueous droplets with 1 mg/mL Snomax marked with fluorescein and 20 droplets of INA-free milli Q water marked with Coomassie Brilliant Blue dye. The Biomek 3000 was modified to change droplet generation parameters. The droplet diameters were measured using the Matlab automated circle detection program Droplet_Dispersion.m. The program detects circles in images and analyzes the diameter of each droplet. The Asymptote freezer provided constant rate cooling. The study used a generic digital camera for image recording. The key innovation was the integration of automated droplet generation with a controlled-rate freezer to improve the throughput and accuracy of the freeze-float system.

Key Results
The Biomek 3000 successfully generated uniform droplets. The polydispersity of the 60 droplets was 9.2%. The study expected no more than ±0.09 °C dispersion in the measurement of the nucleation temperature. The INA droplets showed droplet freezing behavior with a good agreement with the previous report. The freezing temperature in cells in the same deep well plate showed p-value of 4.4 × 10⁻⁷ at constant temperature -28 °C generic freezer. The thermal gradient was decreased (p = 0.31) with linear cooling (-0.25 °C/min) compared to the constant temperature cooling. The Asymptote freezer provided high accuracy control of the cooling temperature. The droplets with INA froze at -7.1 ± 0.59 °C and droplets without INA did not freeze until the temperature reached to -12.3 °C in the Asymptote freezer (Figure 4). The distribution of freezing of droplets in Asymptote freezer (Figure 5) showed less difference of well to well freezing temperature (p = 0.83) and overall 36% lower dispersion (Figure 6).

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that automation and controlled cooling improve the freeze-float system. The automated droplet generation provided uniform droplets, which improved the accuracy of freezing temperature measurements. The controlled-rate freezer reduced well-to-well variability, enhancing the reliability of INA detection. The results suggest that the freeze-float system can be scaled up for high-throughput screening of ice nucleating agents. The study implies that precise control over droplet size and cooling rate is critical for accurate ice nucleation measurements. The findings contribute to the understanding of heterogeneous ice nucleation by providing a more efficient and accurate method for studying the process.

Contradictions Limitations
The study identified several limitations. The droplet stability during transport was not sufficient, and static electricity caused by frictions caused coalescing. The study did not report the random seed used for the analysis. The study did not include a detailed discussion of the external validity of the findings. The study did not address the potential for contamination during the automated droplet generation process. The study did not fully explore the impact of different cooling rates on the freezing behavior of the droplets. The study did not provide a detailed comparison of the performance of the automated system with other HTS methods.

Claims
[{"description": "The automated droplet generation system produced droplets with a polydispersity of 9.2%, indicating uniform droplet size.", "supporting_evidence": "The polydispersity of the 60 droplets was 9.2%, as determined by image analysis and the Droplet_Dispersion.m program (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Uniform droplet size is crucial for accurate ice nucleation measurements, as the freezing temperature is directly related to droplet diameter."}, {"description": "The Asymptote controlled-rate freezer provided more uniform cooling compared to a generic freezer.", "supporting_evidence": "The distribution of freezing of droplets in Asymptote freezer showed less difference of well to well freezing temperature (p = 0.83) and overall 36% lower dispersion (Figure 5 and 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "Uniform cooling reduces well-to-well variability, improving the reliability of INA detection."}, {"description": "Droplets with INA froze at a higher temperature than droplets without INA in the Asymptote freezer.", "supporting_evidence": "The droplets with INA froze at -7.1 ± 0.59 °C and droplets without INA did not freeze until the temperature reached to -12.3 °C in the Asymptote freezer (Figure 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This observation confirms the ability of the freeze-float system to differentiate between droplets with and without INA."}, {"description": "The automated system, using the Biomek 3000, generated up to ~3800 uniform 1 µL droplets in the 96-well plate freeze-float system.", "supporting_evidence": "The Biomek 3000 liquid handling system was used to generate up to ~3800 uniform 1 µL droplets in the 96-well plate freeze-float system.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the potential for high-throughput screening of INA using the automated system."}]

Data Code Availability
Source Code S1 and S3 are available.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the automated droplet generation system and the analysis of droplet size. Figure 4 illustrates the freezing behavior of droplets with and without INA in the Asymptote freezer, demonstrating the system's ability to differentiate between the two. Figures 5 and 6 compare the freezing temperature distributions in the Asymptote and generic freezers, highlighting the improved uniformity of cooling in the Asymptote freezer.

Three Takeaways
The primary contribution is the development of an automated, high-throughput freeze-float system for measuring ice nucleation activity. The strongest evidence is the reduced well-to-well variability in freezing temperature (p = 0.83) and 36% lower dispersion in the Asymptote freezer compared to a generic freezer, indicating improved accuracy. The main limitation is the droplet stability during transport, and static electricity caused by frictions caused coalescing, which requires further investigation to ensure the system's robustness and reliability for real-world applications.