Executive Summary
This study elucidates the regulatory mechanism of the yeast cadmium factor 1 (Ycf1) transporter, an ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter responsible for transporting glutathione and heavy metals into the vacuole. Using cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), the researchers determined the 3.4Å and 4.0Å resolution structures of endogenously phosphorylated Ycf1 in two inward-facing conformations: IFwide and IFnarrow. The structures revealed a resolved section of the intrinsically disordered regulatory domain (R-domain), including the phosphorylation sites. The R-domain interacts with Nucleotide Binding Domain 1 (NBD1) and the lasso domain. Phosphorylation of the R-domain was observed at S908, T911, and S914, and was confirmed by mass spectrometry and phosphostaining. Dephosphorylation of Ycf1, achieved through treatment with lambda phosphatase, altered the digestion pattern during limited proteolysis and drastically reduced ATPase activity. The study found that the R-domain phosphorylation reorganizes the Ycf1 architecture and is required for maximal ATPase activity. The findings suggest that the extensive interactions between the phosphorylated R-domain and the rest of Ycf1 represent a stimulatory R-domain architecture, and that the R-domain transitions from unbound/disordered to bound/ordered upon phosphorylation. The novelty lies in providing structural and biochemical details of phosphorylation-dependent regulation of Ycf1, offering insights into how R-domains control ABCC transporter activity. A key limitation is that the structures do not rule out an inhibitory role for the unphosphorylated state. The work is significant because it provides mechanistic insights about post-translational modification (phosphorylation) on an important class of transporters, the ABCC family, and may provide implications for several other types of transporters where such long phosphorylated unstructured domains or loops are widespread.

Research Context
ABC transporters are crucial for cellular functions, and their regulation is often mediated by phosphorylation. The R-domain, a key regulatory element in many ABC transporters, is typically intrinsically disordered. Prior structural studies have lacked the resolution to fully characterize the R-domain and its interactions with other domains, particularly the phosphorylation sites. Previous studies on CFTR and Ycf1 have revealed density for segments of the R-domain in proximity to NBD1, but lacked sequence assignment for the phosphorylation sites. This study addresses the gap in understanding how R-domain phosphorylation regulates ABCC transporter activity by providing high-resolution structures of Ycf1 with a resolved R-domain and its phosphorylation sites. This work builds upon previous research by providing a more complete model than previous ABCC structures, which resolve small fragments of the R-domain, do not resolve the phosphorylation sites, and do not assign the sequence.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How does phosphorylation of the R-domain regulate the activity of the Ycf1 transporter? The study hypothesizes that phosphorylation of the R-domain induces structural changes that promote interactions with NBD1 and the lasso domain, thereby increasing ATPase activity. This hypothesis is supported by the cryo-EM structures showing the R-domain in a phosphorylated state, interacting with NBD1 and the lasso domain. The study also predicts that dephosphorylation of Ycf1 will disrupt these interactions and reduce ATPase activity, which was confirmed by the experiments showing a drastic activity reduction in dephosphorylated Ycf1. The study contrasts with prior work by providing a high-resolution structural view of the R-domain and its phosphorylation sites, enabling a more detailed understanding of the regulatory mechanism. The study also proposes a model where the R-domain transitions from unbound/disordered to bound/ordered upon phosphorylation, which differs from the model where the R-domain is completely disordered or where it resides only between NBD1 and NBD2 in a semi-ordered state.

Methodological Details
The study employed cryo-EM to determine the structures of Ycf1, along with biochemical assays to assess ATPase activity and phosphorylation. The study used the S. cerevisiae DSY5 strain to express Ycf1. Two forms of Ycf1 were expressed and purified: wild-type (WT) and the NBD2 Walker B mutant E1435Q. Grids of both WT and E1435Q Ycf1 in apo conditions were prepared. The E1435Q mutant dataset yielded homogenous particles, from which two inward-facing conformations were determined to 3.4Å and 4.0Å resolution. Cryo-EM data processing was performed in RELION (3.0 and 3.1) and cisTEM. Drift correction was performed using MotionCor2. The contrast transfer function (CTF) was estimated using CTFFIND4.1. Particle picking was performed using a reconstruction of WT Ycf1. Manual particle picking was performed on a subset of micrographs belonging to the WT Ycf1 dataset and subject to reference free 2D Classification to generate references for automated particle picking. Model building was performed using the SWISS-MODEL server and 6jb1 as a template. Manual model building was performed in COOT. Iterative cycles of real-space refinement and analysis were performed in Phenix. ATPase activity was determined at 30ºC using an enzyme-coupled assay. Each reaction consisted of 75 µL volumes containing 6.45 µg of protein. The initial rate of NADH consumption was monitored by measuring the absorbance every minute at 340 nM for 30-45 min on a Synergy Neo2 Multi-mode Microplate Reader (BioTek). Nonlinear regression analysis of data fit with the Michaelis-Menten equation in GraphPad Prism 9 was used to generate kinetic parameters for at least three technical replicates. Ycf1 phosphorylation was assayed by in-gel phosphoprotein staining. Dephosphorylated Ycf1 was generated by treating SEC-purified Ycf1 with Lambda phosphatase. LC-MS/MS analysis was used to measure quantitative phosphorylation of purified Ycf1. Limited proteolysis was performed with trypsin protease. The study was not preregistered. Multiple-comparison corrections were not mentioned. The study adhered to standard ethical guidelines for research involving biological materials.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized cryo-EM to determine the structure of the Ycf1 transporter. The Ycf1 gene was codon-optimized and cloned into the p423_GAL1 yeast expression vector as an N-terminal Flag and C-terminal decahistidine tagged fusion protein. The S. cerevisiae strain DSY-5 was transformed with the Ycf1 expression construct. For protein expression, cells were grown in SC-His media, and induced by adding YPG media. The culture was grown for an additional 16 hours at 30°C prior to harvesting. For protein purification, harvested cells were resuspended with ice-cold lysis buffer. Cryo-EM data processing was performed in RELION and cisTEM. An initial model of Ycf1 was built using the SWISS-MODEL server and 6jb1 as a template. Manual model building was performed in COOT. Iterative cycles of real-space refinement and analysis were performed in Phenix. The ATPase activity assays were performed using a Synergy Neo2 Multi-mode Microplate Reader. For evaluating ATPase activity, WT and E1435Q Ycf1 were expressed and purified. The Ycf1 phosphorylation was assayed by in-gel phosphoprotein staining. Dephosphorylated Ycf1 was generated by treating SEC-purified Ycf1 with Lambda phosphatase. LC-MS/MS analysis was used to measure quantitative phosphorylation of purified Ycf1. Limited proteolysis was performed with trypsin protease. The key innovation is the high-resolution cryo-EM structures of Ycf1, which allowed for the visualization of the R-domain and its phosphorylation sites. The structures revealed the extensive interaction interface between the phosphorylated R-domain, NBD1, and the lasso-domain. The E1435Q mutant resulted in substantially lowered ATPase activity compared to WT Ycf1.

Key Results
The study determined two cryo-EM structures of Ycf1 at 3.4Å and 4.0Å resolution in inward-facing conformations: IFwide and IFnarrow. The E1435Q mutant of Ycf1 had substantially lowered ATPase activity compared to WT Ycf1 (Vmax 18633 ± 474.7 nmol/sec/mg). The structures revealed the R-domain in a phosphorylated state, with phosphorylation sites assigned to S908, T911, and S914. Mass spectrometry and phosphostaining confirmed phosphorylation at these three sites. Dephosphorylation of Ycf1 resulted in a change in the digestion pattern during limited proteolysis (Figure 2G). Dephosphorylated Ycf1 showed a drastic reduction in ATPase activity (Figure 2H). The study found that the R-domain is helical (residues 920-929) in the C-terminal segment and lacks secondary structure (residues 901-919 and 930-935) in the other. The R-domain encircles NBD1 in both IFwide and IFnarrow. The study also identified three sites where hydrophobic surfaces stabilize the R-domain NBD interaction. The study found that the angle between residues G913, G918 and G932 of the R-domain changed from 130º (IFwide) to 137.5º (IFnarrow). The study also found that the NBDs move closer in IFnarrow and rotate to occlude the non-functional ATP binding site in NBD1.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the model that phosphorylation of the R-domain is crucial for Ycf1 function. The structures suggest that the extensive interactions between the phosphorylated R-domain and the rest of Ycf1 represent a stimulatory R-domain architecture. The study proposes a model where the R-domain transitions from unbound/disordered to bound/ordered upon phosphorylation. The results rationalize key clinically relevant findings related to other ABCC family members. The study suggests that the extensive electrostatic, hydrogen bonding, and hydrophobic interactions on the R-domain explain how mutations distal from phosphorylation sites may contribute to dysfunction. The study also suggests that the binding site of lumacaftor, a clinically used corrector that stabilizes unfolded CFTR, binds in the outer perimeter of NBD1 near the R-domain binding site. The study provides mechanistic insights about post-translational modification (phosphorylation) on an important class of transporters, the ABCC family.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is that the structures do not rule out an inhibitory role for the unphosphorylated state. The study does not address the specific kinases responsible for phosphorylating the R-domain. The study focuses solely on the Ycf1 transporter and its regulation, limiting the external validity to other ABCC transporters. The study does not provide information about the specific environmental conditions that trigger phosphorylation of the R-domain. The study does not mention the random seed used for the analysis. The study does not provide information about the demographics of the sample. The study does not provide information about the multiple-comparison corrections.

Claims
[{"description": "The R-domain of Ycf1 is phosphorylated at S908, T911, and S914.", "supporting_evidence": "Cryo-EM structures revealed electron potential density at these residues, and mass spectrometry and phosphostaining confirmed phosphorylation at these sites (Figure 2E, F; Table S2).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This phosphorylation is crucial for the regulation of Ycf1 activity, as it induces structural changes and promotes interactions with NBD1 and the lasso domain."}, {"description": "Dephosphorylation of Ycf1 reduces ATPase activity.", "supporting_evidence": "Dephosphorylated Ycf1 showed a drastic reduction in ATPase activity (Figure 2H).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the phosphorylation of the R-domain is required for maximal ATPase activity, and the interactions of phosphorylated S908, T911, and S914 are major drivers of an architecture that facilitates ATP hydrolysis."}, {"description": "The R-domain interacts with NBD1 and the lasso domain.", "supporting_evidence": "The cryo-EM structures revealed extensive contacts between the phosphorylated R-domain, NBD1, and the lasso domain (Figure 2A-D; Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "These interactions are crucial for stabilizing the R-domain and promoting the active conformation of Ycf1."}, {"description": "The IFwide to IFnarrow transition involves a change in the angle between residues G913, G918 and G932 of the R-domain.", "supporting_evidence": "The angle between residues G913, G918 and G932 of the R-domain changed from 130º (IFwide) to 137.5º (IFnarrow) (Figure 4B).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This rearrangement within the R-domain correlates with overall movements in the structure, including a change in angle between residues G913, G918 and G932 of the R-domain from 130º (IFwide) to 137.5º (IFnarrow)."}, {"description": "The E1435Q mutant of Ycf1 has reduced ATPase activity compared to the WT.", "supporting_evidence": "The E1435Q mutant of Ycf1 had substantially lowered ATPase activity compared to WT Ycf1 (Vmax 18633 ± 474.7 nmol/sec/mg) (Figure 1D).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the NBD2 Walker B mutant E1435Q likely allows the trapping of the inward-facing conformations."}]

Data Code Availability
Data and code availability are not mentioned in the paper.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study used the E1435Q mutant of Ycf1 to facilitate the trapping of the inward-facing conformations. The study also prepared dephosphorylated Ycf1 by treating it with lambda phosphatase.

Ethical Considerations
The study used the S. cerevisiae DSY-5 strain. The study adhered to standard ethical guidelines for research involving biological materials. No specific ethical concerns were mentioned.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the cryo-EM structures of Ycf1 in IFwide and IFnarrow conformations, highlighting the differences in interdomain distances and the substrate binding cavity. Figure 2 illustrates the phosphorylated state of the R-domain, the effects of dephosphorylation on digestion patterns, and the impact on ATPase activity. Figure 3 shows the tightly embedded hydrophobic surfaces that stabilize the R-domain NBD interaction. Figure 4 shows the different NBD orientation with a single-occluded ATP site in IFnarrow. These figures are critical for understanding the structural and functional consequences of R-domain phosphorylation.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the high-resolution cryo-EM structures of Ycf1, which revealed the structure of the R-domain and its phosphorylation sites, providing insights into the regulatory mechanism of Ycf1. (2) The strongest evidence is the structural data showing the R-domain in a phosphorylated state, interacting with NBD1 and the lasso domain, and the functional data showing a drastic reduction in ATPase activity upon dephosphorylation (Figure 2H). (3) The primary limitation is that the structures do not rule out an inhibitory role for the unphosphorylated state. Future research could focus on identifying the specific kinases responsible for phosphorylating the R-domain and investigating the role of the unphosphorylated state.