Executive Summary
This study investigated the acute toxicity of six engineered nanoparticles (ENPs) – silver (Ag), gold (Au), copper oxide (CuO), zinc oxide (ZnO), titanium dioxide (TiO2), and silicon dioxide (SiO2) – on the hatching rate and early nauplii of *Artemia sp.* The research aimed to assess the environmental risks associated with ENPs by evaluating their impact on a common aquatic organism. The study employed two main assays: a hatching rate test, where *Artemia* cysts were exposed to ENPs during hatching, and a standard *Artemia* toxicity test, where newly hatched nauplii were exposed to ENPs. The hatching rate was expressed as a percentage of total hatched *Artemia*, and mortality of nauplii was used as an endpoint. Results indicated that Ag and CuO nanoparticles exhibited the highest toxicity, significantly reducing hatching rates and increasing nauplii mortality. The order of toxicity was determined to be Ag > CuO > ZnO > Au > TiO2 > SiO2. The study found a strong inverse correlation between hatching rates and larval mortality. This suggests that the hatching test could serve as a prescreening tool for assessing ENP toxicity. The findings highlight the potential ecotoxicological hazards of ENPs and the utility of *Artemia* as a model organism for toxicity assessments. The main limitation is the focus on acute toxicity without investigating long-term effects or mechanisms of toxicity in detail.

Research Context
The increasing use of nanomaterials raises concerns about their potential environmental impact. The unique physicochemical properties of ENPs can lead to unpredictable behaviors and unknown risks to ecosystems. Current knowledge regarding the bioavailability and biopersistence of ENPs, especially in aquatic environments, is limited. Existing ecotoxicology assays for nanomaterials often use bacteria, fish, or copepods. This study addresses the gap in knowledge by utilizing *Artemia sp.*, a widely distributed and cost-effective model organism, to assess the acute toxicity of various ENPs. Prior studies have investigated ENP toxicity using *Artemia*, but this research expands upon that by examining both hatching rates and nauplii mortality, providing a more comprehensive toxicity assessment.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What is the acute toxicity of various engineered nanoparticles (ENPs) on the hatching rate and early nauplii of *Artemia sp.*? The study hypothesized that different ENPs would exhibit varying degrees of toxicity, with higher concentrations leading to reduced hatching rates and increased nauplii mortality. It was further hypothesized that the toxicity of ENPs would correlate with their physicochemical properties. The study predicted that Ag and CuO nanoparticles would demonstrate the highest toxicity due to their known reactivity. The alternative hypothesis was that all ENPs would have minimal impact on hatching and survival, or that toxicity would not correlate with the tested ENPs. This study differs from prior work by integrating both hatching rate and nauplii mortality as endpoints, providing a more comprehensive assessment of ENP toxicity. The study also investigates the correlation between the two assays.

Methodological Details
The study employed an experimental design to assess the acute toxicity of six ENPs: Ag, Au, CuO, ZnO, TiO2, and SiO2. The *Artemia sp.* cysts (San Francisco Bay strain) were hydrated in distilled water for 45 minutes and bleached using a 20% sodium hypochlorite solution for 15 minutes to decapsulate the cysts. The bleached cysts were washed and allowed to hatch in 25% salt water (pH 8.0) with continuous light and aeration at 28°C. Two concentrations of each ENP (100 mg/L and 10 mg/L) were tested. The hatching rate, mortality, and viability were checked after 24 hours. Three 100µl aliquots were taken from each flask and counted under a stereo-microscope. The number of hatched *Artemia* (motile vs. immotile), umbrella stage, and unhatched cysts were counted. Hatching rate was expressed as a percentage of total hatched *Artemia*. In the standard *Artemia* toxicity test, nauplii hatched under normal conditions were exposed to ENPs at concentrations of 100 mg/L, 10 mg/L, 1 mg/L, 0.1 mg/L, and 0.01 mg/L. Viability was assessed at 6-hour intervals for 48 hours. Mortality was recorded as cessation of swimming or any movement. LD50 values were calculated using Graphpad software. Oxidative stress was assessed using DCFDA staining. The study was conducted in six replicates for hatching studies. Statistical validation was performed using Graphpad software. The correlation between the hatching rate and mortality was assessed using online software.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized commercially available or in-house synthesized ENPs. Silicon nanoparticles were supplied by Nanologica AB, silver nanoparticles from Colorobbia, gold nanoparticles from INMETRO, copper oxide nanoparticles from Intrinsiq Materials (UK), zinc oxide nanoparticles from Nanogate (Germany), and titanium dioxide particles were synthesized using an existing protocol. The ENPs were characterized using TEM and DLS. For TEM, a 50µg/ml suspension of nanoparticles was applied to formvar-coated copper grids and air-dried. The grids were examined in a JEOL 2010 TEM at 100KV using a 20µ aperture, and images were analyzed using GATAN software. DLS measurements were performed using a Horiba Nanopartica SZ100 system on 25µg/ml suspensions in milliQ water and salt water. The *Artemia* cultures were prepared by hydrating and bleaching *Artemia* cysts and allowing them to hatch in 25% salt water. The hatching rate test involved exposing the cysts to ENPs at two concentrations (100 mg/L and 10 mg/L). The standard *Artemia* toxicity test exposed newly hatched nauplii to a range of ENP concentrations. The oxidative stress test involved treating nauplii with DCFDA and imaging the fluorescence using a Zeiss Axiovert imager. The study used standard protocols for *Artemia* culture and toxicity testing, with the novel element being the simultaneous assessment of hatching rate and nauplii mortality in response to ENP exposure.

Key Results
The hatching rate of *Artemia* was significantly affected by the presence of ENPs. At 100 mg/L, the hatching rate dropped to approximately 29% for Ag and CuO nanoparticles, with only 50% being motile and viable. At 10 mg/L, the hatching rate remained low for Ag nanoparticles, but the viability of hatched nauplii was 85%. In the presence of CuO, the hatching rate was low with 64% viability. The hatching rate was around 50-60% for Au, SiO2, TiO2, and ZnO at 100mg/L, compared to the control. In the standard *Artemia* toxicity test, Ag nanoparticles and silver in ionic form (silver nitrate) were the most toxic. The LC50 of Ag nanoparticles was around 10.12 mg/L at 24 hours. The correlation test showed a coefficient of -0.7853 between hatching rates and mortality in the ARC test. The hatching rate and viability were equivalent to the controls for SiO2 nanoparticles at 10 mg/L. Staining with DCFDA showed signs of stress in the nauplii exposed to Ag, TiO2, and SiO2 nanoparticles. The pH of the salt water remained stable (6.3-6.5) after ENP addition. The study found a strong inverse correlation between hatching rates and larval mortality (Figure 6).

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that ENPs exhibit varying degrees of toxicity to *Artemia sp.*, with Ag and CuO demonstrating the highest toxicity. The inverse correlation between hatching rate and nauplii mortality suggests that the hatching test can be used as a prescreening tool for assessing ENP toxicity. The study implies that the toxicity of ENPs may be related to their ability to disrupt the hatching process and/or cause direct harm to the nauplii. The results highlight the potential for ENPs to pose environmental risks, particularly for aquatic organisms. The study suggests that the accumulation of ENPs in the gut may be a mechanism of toxicity, as observed in the nauplii. The findings contribute to the understanding of ENP ecotoxicity and the development of rapid toxicity assessment methods.

Contradictions Limitations
The study focused on acute toxicity, and the long-term effects of ENP exposure were not investigated. The study did not fully elucidate the mechanisms of toxicity, although the accumulation of ENPs in the gut was suggested. The study did not report the random seed used for the statistical analyses. The study used only one species of *Artemia*, which limits the generalizability of the findings to other aquatic organisms. The study did not explore the influence of other environmental factors, such as temperature or water chemistry, on the toxicity of ENPs. The study did not provide detailed information about the physicochemical properties of the ENPs in the test solutions, which could influence their toxicity. The study acknowledges the potential for sedimentation and flocculation of ENP suspensions, which could affect the results.

Claims
[{"description": "Silver (Ag) and copper oxide (CuO) nanoparticles exhibit the highest acute toxicity to *Artemia sp.*, significantly reducing hatching rates and increasing nauplii mortality.", "supporting_evidence": "At 100 mg/L, Ag and CuO reduced hatching rates to approximately 29% with only 50% viability (Table 1). The LC50 of Ag nanoparticles was around 10.12 mg/L at 24 hours (Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "Silicon dioxide nanoparticles at 10 mg/L showed hatching rates and viability equivalent to controls (Table 1).", "implications": "This highlights the potential environmental hazard of Ag and CuO nanoparticles and the need for further investigation into their ecotoxicological effects."}, {"description": "The hatching rate test and the standard *Artemia* toxicity test are inversely correlated, suggesting that the hatching test can serve as a prescreening tool for ENP toxicity.", "supporting_evidence": "The correlation test showed a coefficient of -0.7853 (Figure 6).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any contradicting evidence.", "implications": "This suggests a practical application for the hatching test in rapid toxicity assessments of ENPs, which could be used to reduce the time and cost of ecotoxicological studies."}, {"description": "The order of toxicity of the tested ENPs is Ag > CuO > ZnO > Au > TiO2 > SiO2.", "supporting_evidence": "This order is based on the observed effects on hatching rates and nauplii mortality across the two assays (Table 1 and Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any direct contradictions to this ranking.", "implications": "This ranking provides a comparative assessment of the relative toxicity of the different ENPs tested, which can inform risk assessment and management strategies."}, {"description": "The accumulation of ENPs in the gut of *Artemia* nauplii may be a mechanism of toxicity.", "supporting_evidence": "The nauplii maintained in salt water containing nanoparticles showed accumulation of eNPs in the gut (Figure 5).", "contradicting_evidence": "Nauplii exposed to silver nanoparticles, which were the most toxic, did not show accumulation of material in the gut (Figure 5).", "implications": "This suggests that the physical presence of ENPs in the gut, or the disruption of gut function, may contribute to the observed toxicity. Further research is needed to confirm this mechanism."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper does not mention data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study conducted experiments in six replicates for hatching studies. The study used different concentrations of ENPs to assess dose-response relationships.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not explicitly mention ethical considerations or IRB approval.

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 presents the hatching rates and viability of *Artemia* exposed to different ENPs at two concentrations. Table 2 presents the LC50 values of the ENPs in the standard *Artemia* toxicity test. Figure 3 and Figure 4 show the hatching rates and larval mortality. Figure 5 illustrates the accumulation of ENPs in the gut of *Artemia* nauplii. Figure 6 shows the inverse correlation between hatching rates and larval mortality.

Three Takeaways
(1) The study demonstrates that silver and copper oxide nanoparticles exhibit the highest acute toxicity to *Artemia sp.*, significantly impacting hatching rates and nauplii survival, highlighting the potential environmental risks associated with these ENPs. (2) The strong inverse correlation between hatching rates and larval mortality suggests that the hatching test can be used as a rapid, cost-effective prescreening tool for assessing ENP toxicity, providing a practical method for hazard identification. (3) The study's main limitation is its focus on acute toxicity, without investigating long-term effects or fully elucidating the mechanisms of toxicity. Further research is needed to understand the long-term impacts of ENPs and the specific mechanisms by which they exert their toxic effects.