Executive Summary
This study reports the development of a bimetallic Au-Fe catalyst supported on hydrophobic silica (AuFeHS) for the continuous partial oxidation of methane to methanol and acetic acid at atmospheric pressure. The research addresses the challenge of directly converting methane, a major component of natural gas, into valuable chemicals under mild conditions. The AuFeHS catalyst was synthesized using a modified deposition precipitation method, with the optimal composition found to be 0.5 wt% Fe and 0.2 wt% Au. In a batch reactor at 10 bar methane pressure, the AuFeHS catalyst achieved a methanol yield of 1666 mmol/gFe+Au with 95% selectivity.  In a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure, the catalyst produced 224 mmol/gFe+Au of methanol. Co-feeding CO with methane resulted in acetic acid production, with a yield of 92 mmol/gFe+Au. The novelty lies in the achievement of high yields of methanol and acetic acid from methane under atmospheric pressure and mild temperatures, a significant improvement over previous methods that required harsh conditions. The study demonstrates the potential of this catalyst for the efficient and selective conversion of methane to valuable products, offering a pathway toward more sustainable utilization of natural gas.  A key limitation is the scope of the study, which focuses on catalyst development and performance under specific conditions, and does not address the long-term stability or scalability of the process.

Research Context
The direct conversion of methane to methanol or acetic acid is a major goal in catalysis due to the abundance of methane and the value of these products. Current methods often require high temperatures and pressures, limiting their commercial viability. Prior work has explored various catalysts, including single-site catalysts and bimetallic systems, but many suffer from low product yields, poor selectivity, or harsh reaction conditions. For example, some studies have reported the conversion of methane over oxo dicopper anchored on carbon nitride with a methanol production of 129.7 mmol gCu -1 h -1 and the production of 7.02 µmol of oxygenates in 30 min of using AuPdCu supported on titania. The existing literature lacks a catalyst that can efficiently convert methane to methanol or acetic acid under atmospheric pressure and mild temperatures. This research aims to address this gap by developing a novel Au-Fe catalyst and demonstrating its performance in both batch and continuous flow reactors.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research questions are: (1) Can a bimetallic Au-Fe catalyst supported on hydrophobic silica effectively catalyze the partial oxidation of methane to methanol and acetic acid? (2) Can this reaction be achieved under atmospheric pressure and mild temperatures? The primary hypothesis is that the AuFeHS catalyst will exhibit high activity and selectivity for the partial oxidation of methane to methanol and acetic acid under mild reaction conditions. An alternative hypothesis is that the catalyst will show poor activity or selectivity, or that the reaction will require high pressures or temperatures. The study also investigates the effect of co-feeding CO on product selectivity, with the prediction that the presence of CO will shift the selectivity towards acetic acid. This work differs from previous studies by focusing on atmospheric pressure operation and the use of H2O2 as an oxidant. Success would be indicated by high methanol and/or acetic acid yields with high selectivity under the specified conditions, while failure would be indicated by low yields or the need for harsh reaction conditions.

Methodological Details
The study employed a combination of catalyst synthesis, characterization, and catalytic activity testing. The AuFeHS catalyst was synthesized using a modified deposition precipitation (DP) method, dispersing Fe onto hydrophobic silica (HS) support. The optimal catalyst composition was determined to be 0.5 wt% Fe and 0.2 wt% Au. The hydrophobicity of the silica support was confirmed by contact angle analysis. Catalyst characterization was performed using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectrometry (ICP-OES), X-ray Diffraction (XRD), High-Resolution Transmission Electron Microscopy (HRTEM), X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS), X-ray Absorption Near Edge Structure (XANES), Extended X-ray Absorption Fine Structure (EXAFS), in-situ Infrared (IR) spectroscopy, and Solid-state NMR. Catalytic activity was evaluated in both batch and continuous flow reactors. Batch reactions were conducted at 10 bar methane pressure and optimized temperatures. Continuous flow reactions were performed at atmospheric pressure. The feed gas composition, temperature, and reaction time were varied to optimize the reaction conditions. The products were analyzed using Gas Chromatography (GC) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. The study did not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study was conducted in a laboratory setting, and no ethical approvals or IRB were mentioned.

Procedures Architectures
The AuFeHS catalyst was synthesized using a modified deposition precipitation method. First, the hydrophobic silica support was prepared. Then, Fe was deposited onto the support, followed by Au deposition. The catalyst was characterized using various techniques, including ICP-OES to determine the metal loading, XRD to assess the crystalline structure, HRTEM to analyze the particle size and morphology, XPS to determine the oxidation states of the metals, XANES and EXAFS to probe the electronic structure and local environment, and in-situ IR spectroscopy to study CO adsorption. The catalytic activity was evaluated in both batch and continuous flow reactors. The batch reactor experiments were conducted at 10 bar methane pressure. The continuous flow reactor experiments were performed at atmospheric pressure using a fixed-bed reactor. The feed gas composition (methane, H2O2, and CO), temperature, and flow rate were controlled. The products were analyzed using GC and NMR. The key novelty lies in the development of the AuFeHS catalyst and its application in a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure. The catalyst design leverages the synergistic effects between Au and Fe, supported on a hydrophobic silica support. The study also explores the effect of co-feeding CO on product selectivity. The study used custom-built reactors and standard analytical equipment.

Key Results
The AuFeHS catalyst demonstrated significant catalytic activity for the partial oxidation of methane. In a batch reactor, the AuFeHS catalyst yielded 1666 mmol/gFe+Au of methanol with 95% selectivity at 10 bar methane pressure. The Fe-HS catalyst gave 285 mmol/gFe with a methanol selectivity of 82%. The Au-HS catalyst yielded 47.6 mmol/gAu of methanol. In a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure, the AuFeHS catalyst produced 224 mmol/gFe+Au of methanol. The FeHS catalyst produced 24.2 mmol/gFe of methanol, while the AuHS catalyst produced 12 mmol/gAu of methanol. The methanol yield from the AuFeHS catalyst in the continuous flow process (224 mmol/gFe+Au) is better than the reported value of 1.81 µmolh -1 gcat -1 of methanol using O2 as an oxidant at 210 o C and 0.081 molProduct kgcatalyst -1 h -1 under 20 bar pressure using H2O2 as an oxidant. Co-feeding CO with methane resulted in acetic acid production, with a yield of 3403 µmol/gcat in the batch process at 50°C and 20 bar total pressure.  The CO2 selectivity was 10 % when CO was added to the feed, while 5-6 % when methane was only in the reactant feed. The study also found that the AuFeHS catalyst had a specific surface area of 392 m 2 /g.  The particle size distribution for Au on FeHS was in range of 1.4-2.8 nm. The XPS analysis showed the presence of Fe 3+ and low valent Fe 3-δ+ species in the AuFeHS catalyst. The XANES analysis revealed that Au is in an elemental state in all the samples.

Interpretation Implications
The results suggest that the synergistic effect between Au and Fe, combined with the hydrophobic silica support, is crucial for the high activity and selectivity of the AuFeHS catalyst. The low valent Fe 3-δ+ species, stabilized by Au, is proposed to be an important site for methane activation and hydrogen peroxide activation. The hydrophobic support helps to keep the peroxide radical close to the active metal sites, enhancing the reaction efficiency. The study demonstrates that tuning active Fe species through bimetallic modulation is a promising approach for the catalytic conversion of lower alkanes to oxygenates. The findings support the idea that the combination of Au and Fe can create a highly active catalyst for methane oxidation under mild conditions. The results also suggest that the introduction of CO can be used to control the product selectivity towards acetic acid.

Contradictions Limitations
The study focuses on catalyst development and performance under specific conditions, and does not address the long-term stability or the deactivation mechanisms of the catalyst. The study does not report the random seed used for the experiments. The study does not provide information on the catalyst's performance under different conditions, such as varying the methane pressure or the H2O2 concentration. The study does not include an economic analysis of the process. The study does not provide details on the scalability of the process. The study does not mention the demographics of the participants or the sample size. The study does not address the potential environmental impact of the process. The study does not provide information on the safety aspects of the process. The study does not provide information on the potential for catalyst regeneration. The study does not provide information on the mass balance of the reaction.

Claims
[{"description": "The AuFeHS catalyst exhibits high activity for the partial oxidation of methane to methanol in a batch reactor.", "supporting_evidence": "The AuFeHS catalyst yielded 1666 mmol/gFe+Au of methanol with 95% selectivity at 10 bar methane pressure in a batch reactor (Figure 3a and 3b).", "contradicting_evidence": "The Fe-HS catalyst produced only 285 mmol/gFe with 82% selectivity under similar conditions. The Au-HS catalyst yielded 47.6 mmol/gAu of methanol.", "implications": "The bimetallic Au-Fe catalyst shows a synergistic effect, enhancing the catalytic performance compared to monometallic catalysts."}, {"description": "The AuFeHS catalyst is active for the partial oxidation of methane to methanol in a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure.", "supporting_evidence": "The AuFeHS catalyst produced 224 mmol/gFe+Au of methanol in a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure (Figure 4b).", "contradicting_evidence": "The FeHS catalyst produced 24.2 mmol/gFe of methanol, and the AuHS catalyst produced 12 mmol/gAu of methanol.", "implications": "The catalyst is effective under mild reaction conditions, making it potentially more commercially viable."}, {"description": "Co-feeding CO with methane shifts the product selectivity towards acetic acid.", "supporting_evidence": "The introduction of CO to the reactant feed resulted in acetic acid formation as the main product, with a yield of 3403 µmol/gcat in the batch process at 50°C and 20 bar total pressure (Figure 3d).", "contradicting_evidence": "Without CO, methanol was the primary product.", "implications": "The product selectivity can be controlled by adjusting the feed gas composition."}, {"description": "The AuFeHS catalyst exhibits a synergistic effect between Au and Fe.", "supporting_evidence": "The AuFeHS catalyst showed significantly higher activity than the monometallic Fe-HS and Au-HS catalysts in both batch and continuous flow reactors (Figure 3 and 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "The activity of the AuFeHS catalyst was not simply the sum of the activities of the individual Au-HS and Fe-HS catalysts.", "implications": "The combination of Au and Fe enhances the catalytic performance, suggesting a cooperative mechanism."}]

Data Code Availability
Supporting Information is available, including synthesis details, characterization methods, and activity data. The supporting information is available via the internet at http://pubs.acs.org. https://doi.org/10.26434/chemrxiv-2023-h00ht.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study includes a comparison of the catalytic activity of the Au-Fe catalyst with other catalysts and the effect of the support material. The study also investigated the effect of co-feeding CO on product selectivity. The control experiments showed that no product was detected without methane flow, oxidant and catalyst.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not mention any specific ethical considerations, risks, or approvals. The study did not involve human or animal subjects.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 3 illustrates the catalytic activity and selectivity of various catalysts in a batch reactor, demonstrating the superior performance of the AuFeHS catalyst. Figure 4 shows the methanol production in a continuous flow reactor, highlighting the high yield achieved by the AuFeHS catalyst under atmospheric pressure. Table S4 compares the catalytic activity data from the Au-Fe catalyst with the best reports in the literature. Figure 2 shows the XPS and XANES spectra, confirming the oxidation states of the elements and the electronic environment surrounding Fe species. These figures and tables are crucial for understanding the catalyst's performance and the impact of the experimental conditions.

Three Takeaways
(1) The study successfully developed an AuFeHS catalyst that efficiently converts methane to methanol and acetic acid under atmospheric pressure and mild temperatures, a significant advancement over existing methods. (2) The AuFeHS catalyst achieved a methanol yield of 224 mmol/gFe+Au in a continuous flow reactor at atmospheric pressure, and the introduction of CO shifted the selectivity towards acetic acid, demonstrating the catalyst's versatility and tunability. (3) A key limitation is the lack of information on catalyst stability, long-term performance, and scalability, which are crucial for assessing the commercial viability of the process. Future research should focus on these aspects to further develop and optimize the catalyst for industrial applications.