Executive Summary
This study introduces the Foster method, a novel environmental DNA (eDNA) sampling technique for detecting American Foulbrood (AFB) disease in honeybee hives. The method uses colony entrance swabs combined with a dual-target qPCR assay to quantify *Paenibacillus larvae* (P. larvae), the causative agent of AFB. The research aimed to develop a rapid, non-invasive method to identify hives with clinically significant AFB infections, even before visible symptoms appear. The study involved sampling hives from quarantine apiaries and those with clinical signs, comparing nurse bee samples, baseboard swabs, and entrance swabs. Key findings revealed that entrance swabs provided comparable results to whole baseboard swabs, indicating that dismantling the hive was unnecessary for accurate detection. Statistical analysis showed a strong correlation between spore levels at the entrance and the presence of clinical signs (p = 0.00). A spore quantity of 565,000 or more at the entrance indicated a 95% probability of clinical signs being present. The Foster method offers a faster, one-time sampling approach suitable for composite testing and provides clinically relevant information regarding the AFB status of the hive. The primary limitation is the need to refine the clinical spore threshold levels as more hives are tested over time. This method has the potential for application in detecting other bee pathogens and incursion pests.

Research Context
The diagnosis of American Foulbrood (AFB) in honeybees relies heavily on the beekeeper's ability to recognize visual symptoms, a time-consuming and subjective process. Existing methods often require hive dismantling and multiple visits for sampling. Prior molecular methods, such as PCR and qPCR, have been used to detect *P. larvae* but have not fully exploited the quantitative data generated. This study addresses the need for a rapid, non-invasive, and quantitative method to detect AFB at clinically significant levels. The study builds on previous work that detected *P. larvae* using qPCR but improves upon it by using a dual-target qPCR assay and a novel eDNA sampling method. The study aims to overcome the limitations of traditional methods by providing a more efficient and accurate means of detecting AFB infections, thereby improving disease management and preventing further spread.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a rapid, non-invasive eDNA sampling method using colony entrance swabs and a dual-target qPCR assay can accurately detect clinically significant levels of *P. larvae* in honeybee hives. The primary hypothesis is that the Foster method, using entrance swabs, will provide comparable results to more invasive methods, such as whole baseboard swabbing, in detecting *P. larvae* DNA. This study also hypothesizes that there will be a strong correlation between the quantity of *P. larvae* spores detected at the hive entrance and the presence of clinical signs of AFB. Alternative hypotheses include that the entrance swab method will be less sensitive than whole baseboard swabbing or that the correlation between spore levels and clinical signs will be weak. This study differs from prior work by focusing on a non-invasive sampling method and utilizing a dual-target qPCR assay for quantification, aiming to provide a more efficient and accurate assessment of AFB infection levels.

Methodological Details
The study employed a field-based, observational design. Samples were collected from five quarantine apiaries and hives with clinical signs of AFB across New Zealand from late 2018 to early 2020. The sample size included 45 hives sampled up to six times in the first cohort and 23 hives in the second cohort. Samples included nurse bees, swabs from the entire baseboard, and swabs from the hive entrance. Nurse bees were collected from brood frames using 50 mL sterile containers and frozen. Sterile foam-tipped swabs were moistened in sterile water before swabbing the whole baseboard or the hive entrance for 3–5 seconds. Instructions were given to rotate the swabs during collection. Swab heads were snapped off into 2 mL microcentrifuge tubes and sent to the laboratory by overnight courier. DNA was extracted from 10 bees per sample, using the Bee Pathogen DNA/RNA Extraction Kit, a column-based kit with beadbeating. Swabs were placed in screwcap 2 mL tubes with beads, and DNA extraction followed a similar process. A synthetic DNA standard was used for quantification. The standards were used to convert Cq's from bee and swab samples to spore levels. Statistical analysis involved a binary logistic regression model in Minitab to identify the relationship between spore numbers at the entrance and clinical disease likelihood. Analysis of variance was calculated to confirm the correlation between increased entrance spores and the clinical signs of AFB. A p-value of <0.05 was considered significant. The study adhered to standard laboratory practices for DNA extraction and qPCR analysis. Ethical considerations included the use of samples collected as part of standard apiary management and disease control practices.

Procedures Architectures
The Foster method utilizes a dual-target qPCR assay, termed AFBduo, for detecting *P. larvae*. The assay uses two independent targets to enhance sensitivity and specificity. The study used a commercially available multiplex qPCR assay for *P. larvae*. The DNA extraction process involved a column-based kit in conjunction with beadbeating. For bee samples, 10 bees were homogenized in a lysis buffer with beads, incubated, centrifuged, and the supernatant was applied to a nucleic acid binding column. Swabs underwent a similar process. A synthetic DNA standard was used for quantification. The standards and their resulting Cq's were used to convert the Cq's resulting from bee and swab samples to spore levels using the amplification efficiency of the single copy ftsZ gene. The AFBduo assay was tested on synthetic DNA standards. The 16S marker amplified 3-5 cycles earlier than the ftsZ target. The single copy ftsZ gene was used for quantification. The study used a Mini Beadbeater 16 instrument for homogenization. The study used a DS-11 FX microvolume spectrophotometer to quantify the synthetic DNA standard. The study used Minitab software for statistical analysis. The study did not specify the exact qPCR machine used, but it was a standard real-time PCR instrument capable of multiplexing.

Key Results
The AFBduo assay reliably detected down to 4 copies per 10 µL reaction. The reaction targets amplified with high efficiency (ftsZ = 94% and 16S = 96%) and excellent linearity (r = 0.998). The 16S target typically amplified 3-5 cycles earlier than the ftsZ target. The DNA extraction method from bees generated high purity DNA with OD260/280 measurements between 1.8 and 1.9. In the first cohort, 8 out of 45 hives sampled showed clinical signs of AFB. In the second cohort, 4 out of 23 hives showed clinical signs. Statistical analyses showed a strong relationship between increasing spore levels and clinical signs (p = 0.00). A spore quantity of 565,000 or more revealed a 95% probability of clinical signs being present. The levels of *P. larvae* and internal control DNA on swabs from the whole baseboard or entrance area were similar. One hive without visual signs of AFB (Hive 11) showed levels similar to two other hives with clinical AFB signs. The study found that the entrance swab method could clearly differentiate between hives with and without clinical signs. Pooling of swab eluates showed that single hives with higher levels of AFB could be detected within a pool.

Interpretation Implications
The findings support the hypothesis that the Foster method, using entrance swabs, can accurately detect clinically significant AFB infections. The high correlation between spore levels at the entrance and clinical signs suggests that the entrance swab method is a reliable indicator of AFB status. The use of the single copy ftsZ gene for quantification was crucial. The ability to detect pre-clinical infections highlights the potential of the method for early disease detection and management. The results suggest that the accumulation rate of spores on the hive entrance surfaces is important. The study also implies that the hive history is important when interpreting the results. The study's findings support the use of eDNA sampling for other bee pathogens and incursion pests.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not report the exact qPCR machine used. The study does not specify the exact regions where the apiaries were located, only the regions. The study acknowledges the need to refine the clinical spore threshold levels as more hives are tested. The variability in the 16S copy number among AFB isolates suggests that it cannot be relied on for quantification. The study also notes that the history of the hives sampled is important for interpreting the results. The study does not provide information on the sensitivity and specificity of the Foster method compared to other methods. The study does not specify the training of the beekeepers who performed the visual inspections. The study does not address the potential impact of environmental factors on spore levels at the entrance.

Claims
[{"description": "The Foster method, using entrance swabs, effectively detects *P. larvae* in honeybee hives, providing comparable results to whole baseboard swabbing.", "supporting_evidence": "The levels of *P. larvae* and internal control DNA seen on the swabs taken from the whole baseboard or just the entrance area of the baseboard were similar (Table 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This simplifies the sampling process, eliminating the need to dismantle the hive for AFB detection, making it more efficient and less disruptive to the colony."}, {"description": "There is a strong correlation between the quantity of *P. larvae* spores detected at the hive entrance and the presence of clinical signs of AFB.", "supporting_evidence": "Statistical analyses using a binary logistic regression model and analysis of variance indicated the strong relationship between the increasing spore levels and clinical signs (p = 0.00).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This suggests that the entrance swab method can be used to predict the likelihood of clinical AFB, enabling early intervention and disease management."}, {"description": "A spore quantity of 565,000 or more at the hive entrance indicates a high probability of clinical signs being present.", "supporting_evidence": "A spore quantity of 565,000 or more, revealed a 95% probability of clinical signs being present in the hive.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This provides a threshold for actionable intervention, allowing beekeepers to make informed decisions about hive management based on the spore load."}, {"description": "The AFBduo assay, using a dual-target qPCR, provides high confidence in the results.", "supporting_evidence": "The AFBduo assay provided high confidence in the results due to the integrated internal control and detection of two markers for AFB.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "The use of two targets and an internal control increases the reliability of the test results, reducing the risk of false positives or negatives."}, {"description": "The Foster method is applicable to other bee pathogens and incursion pests.", "supporting_evidence": "Preliminary work with these entrance swab samples indicate that the same DNA sample can be used to test for other bee pathogens.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any evidence that contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This suggests that the Foster method could be adapted for broader biosecurity surveillance, enabling rapid detection of multiple threats to honeybee health."}]

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study included pooling swab eluates to reduce time and costs. The results showed that even in pools of twelve hive samples, single hives with higher levels of AFB could be detected.

Ethical Considerations
The study used samples collected as part of standard apiary management and disease control practices. The study did not mention any specific ethical concerns.

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 shows the progression of *P. larvae* levels in three colonies over time, converting Cq data to spores per 10 bees or swab sample. Table 2 compares AFB levels in nurse bees and entrance swabs. Table 3 shows the results of pooling swab eluates. Table 4 compares the levels of *P. larvae* and internal control DNA on swabs taken from the whole baseboard or just the entrance area of the baseboard. These tables are critical for understanding the quantitative findings and the performance of the Foster method.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the Foster method, a rapid and non-invasive eDNA sampling technique using hive entrance swabs and a dual-target qPCR assay for detecting *P. larvae* in honeybee hives.

(2) The strongest evidence is the strong correlation between spore levels at the entrance and clinical signs (p = 0.00), with a spore quantity of 565,000 or more indicating a 95% probability of clinical signs being present.

(3) The primary limitation is the need to refine the clinical spore threshold levels as more hives are tested over time, and the open problem is to assess the accumulation rate of spores on the hive as well as refine the clinical spore threshold levels as more hives are tested over time.