Executive Summary
This study introduces a continuous flow protocol for the organophotoredox-catalyzed dimerization of electron-rich alkenes, specifically vinylcarbazoles and styrenes, to produce cyclobutane materials and natural products. The research merges organophotoredox catalysis with continuous flow technology, offering a more efficient and scalable synthetic route compared to traditional batch methods. The primary finding is that the continuous flow approach, using a commercial platform, significantly reduces reaction times and catalyst loadings. For example, the synthesis of 1,2-transdicarbazylcyclobutane (t-DCzCB) required only 0.1 mol% of the organophotoredox catalyst under continuous flow, a substantial reduction compared to batch conditions. The study demonstrates the synthesis of a new class of functional carbazole dimers and improves the synthesis of styrene-based lignan dimeric natural products, such as magnosalin. The continuous flow method enhances yields and reduces reaction times. The main limitation is the solubility challenges encountered with some substrates, which required adjustments to reaction conditions. The work highlights the advantages of continuous flow in photoredox transformations, offering a more efficient and environmentally friendly approach to synthesizing complex organic molecules.

Research Context
The synthesis of cyclobutanes via radical cation-induced [2+2]-cycloaddition is a valuable method for creating functional materials and natural products. Prior methods include chemical oxidation and photochemical methods using metal-based catalysts, which have limitations in terms of environmental impact, sustainability, and cost. Organophotoredox catalysis offers advantages over metal-based catalysts, but reaction times can be excessive, and catalyst loadings can be high. Continuous flow technology has been shown to improve photochemical reactions by enhancing irradiation efficiency. This study addresses the need for more efficient and sustainable methods by merging organophotoredox catalysis with continuous flow technology to synthesize cyclobutane dimers.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a continuous flow protocol, using organophotoredox catalysis, can provide a more efficient and scalable method for synthesizing cyclobutane dimers compared to traditional batch methods. The primary hypothesis is that the continuous flow approach will reduce reaction times and catalyst loadings while maintaining or improving yields. The study predicts that the continuous flow method will be particularly advantageous for synthesizing t-DCzCB and styrene-based lignan dimeric natural products. The alternative hypothesis is that the continuous flow method will not significantly improve reaction efficiency or will be limited by factors such as substrate solubility. The study aims to demonstrate the advantages of continuous flow over batch chemistry, including scalability and environmental benefits, and to provide a convenient and environmentally beneficial methodology for the synthesis of cyclobutane functional materials and natural products.

Methodological Details
The study employed a continuous flow protocol using a commercial, off-the-shelf platform. The primary focus was on the dimerization of vinylcarbazoles and styrenes. The initial experiment compared continuous flow and batch reaction conditions for the synthesis of t-DCzCB from vinyl carbazole (VCZ). Batch synthesis used an organophotoredox catalyst (10, 3 mol%) under conditions reported by Nicewiez, providing t-DCzCB in 82% yield. Optimization of the continuous flow synthesis involved varying flow rate, catalyst loading, and irradiation wavelength. HPLC analysis with p-terphenyl as an internal standard was used to determine optimal conditions. The study then expanded to synthesize a series of novel carbazole dimers, including brominated derivatives, using both batch and continuous flow methods. The solubility of substrates in acetone at 0.4 M concentration was a challenge, which led to adjustments in the continuous flow conditions. The study also examined the dimerization of styrene derivatives, including 4-methoxy styrene and E-asarone, using continuous flow. The reaction conditions included the use of an electron relay, such as anthracene or diethylaniline, to improve product outcomes. The isolated yields were determined for each reaction. The study also explored the synthetic potential of the bromocyclobutane products by performing Suzuki cross-coupling and borylation reactions. The study did not mention preregistration or multiple comparison corrections.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized a commercial continuous flow platform for the organophotoredox-catalyzed dimerization reactions. The core of the methodology involved merging organophotoredox catalysis with continuous flow technology. The organophotoredox catalyst 10 was used in the reactions. The continuous flow system was used to dimerize vinylcarbazoles and styrenes. The system was optimized by varying flow rates, catalyst loadings, and irradiation wavelengths. The reactions were performed in acetone. The flow rates were varied from 0.1 mL/min to 5 mL/min. Catalyst loadings were varied from 0.1 mol% to 4.5 mol%. Irradiation wavelengths of 405 nm, 420 nm, and 450 nm were tested. The dimerization of vinylcarbazoles was performed at 0.4 M and 0.2 M concentrations in acetone. The dimerization of styrenes was performed with the addition of an electron relay, such as anthracene or diethylaniline. The products were analyzed using HPLC. The Suzuki cross-coupling and borylation reactions were performed using palladium-mediated conditions. The study does not provide details on the specific hardware or software versions used.

Key Results
The continuous flow synthesis of t-DCzCB was optimized using a flow rate of 0.5 mL/min (τ = 20 min) with a catalyst loading of 2 mol% and irradiation at 450 nm, yielding 98%. Reducing the catalyst loading to 1 mol% resulted in a 93% yield. Using 0.1 mol% of the catalyst at 0.5 mL/min provided t-DCzCB in 79% yield. The batch synthesis of t-DCzCB provided 82% isolated yield. The dimerization of 3-bromo-9-vinylcarbazole (12a) under batch conditions provided 12b in 48% yield, while continuous flow at 0.2 mL/min gave 64% yield. The dimerization of 13a provided 13b in 31% yield in batch, and 71% yield under continuous flow. The continuous flow conditions provided improved yields for 14b. 1-bromo-9-vinylcarbazole (15a) did not yield a cyclobutane product in either batch or continuous flow. 3,6-Dibromo-9-vinylcarbazole (16a) provided 16b in 65% yield under continuous flow. 2-chloro-9-vinylcarbazole (18a) and 2-methoxy-9-vinylcarbazole (19a) yielded 18b and 19b in 61% and 45% yield, respectively, under continuous flow. The dimerization of 20a provided 21b in 25% yield. The cyclobutane 22b was isolated in 65% yield. The cyclobutane 23b was isolated in 57% yield. The cyclobutane 24b was isolated in 50% yield. The Suzuki cross-coupling of 13b provided 25 in 75% yield. The borylation of 13b provided 26 in 36% yield. The dimerization of 4-methoxy styrene (27) provided 28 in 44% yield. Styrene 29 provided pellucidin A in 22% yield. E-asarone (3) provided magnosalin 4 in 40% yield.

Interpretation Implications
The findings demonstrate the effectiveness of continuous flow technology in organophotoredox-catalyzed dimerization reactions, leading to improved yields and reduced reaction times compared to batch methods. The results support the hypothesis that continuous flow is a more efficient and scalable approach for synthesizing cyclobutane dimers. The study suggests that the continuous flow method can be applied to a wider range of substrates, including functionalized carbazoles and styrene derivatives. The use of an electron relay in the dimerization of styrenes highlights the importance of reaction conditions in achieving optimal results. The study implies that continuous flow can be a valuable tool for synthesizing new functional materials and natural products, offering advantages in terms of scalability and environmental impact. The study demonstrates the potential of continuous flow for the synthesis of complex organic molecules.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the solubility challenges encountered with certain substrates, which required adjustments to the reaction conditions. The study does not provide information on the reproducibility of the experiments, such as the use of random seeds or the number of replicates. The study does not discuss any potential conflicts with prior literature, although it does build on previous work in the field. The study does not address the external validity of the findings, such as the generalizability of the results to other types of reactions or substrates. The study does not report the use of statistical tests or confidence intervals, which limits the ability to assess the statistical significance of the results. The formation of carbazole under certain reaction conditions suggests a potential for side reactions or degradation of the starting material. The study does not provide a detailed error analysis.

Claims
[{"description": "Continuous flow organophotoredox catalysis reduces catalyst loading compared to batch conditions for t-DCzCB synthesis.", "supporting_evidence": "The batch synthesis of t-DCzCB used 3 mol% catalyst, yielding 82%. Continuous flow synthesis used 0.1 mol% catalyst, yielding 79%.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates a significant improvement in catalyst efficiency, reducing waste and cost."}, {"description": "Continuous flow generally improves yields and reduces reaction times compared to batch conditions for the dimerization of substituted vinylcarbazoles.", "supporting_evidence": "For 3-bromo-9-vinylcarbazole, continuous flow yielded 64% in a shorter time than batch (48%). For 13a, continuous flow yielded 71% versus 31% in batch.", "contradicting_evidence": "The dimerization of 2,7-dibromo-9-vinylcarbazole (17a) showed a slightly better yield in batch conditions.", "implications": "This highlights the advantages of continuous flow for synthesizing a range of functionalized carbazole dimers."}, {"description": "The continuous flow method enables the synthesis of a new family of cyclobutane carbazole dimers with functional groups.", "supporting_evidence": "The study successfully dimerized several substituted vinylcarbazoles, including 2-chloro-, 2-methoxy-, and 3,6-dibromo-9-vinylcarbazoles, demonstrating the ability to incorporate functional groups into the cyclobutane structure.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This expands the scope of available carbazole-based materials for potential applications in novel functional materials."}, {"description": "The continuous flow protocol provides a scalable route to styrene-based lignan dimeric natural products.", "supporting_evidence": "E-asarone (3) was dimerized on a 10 mmol scale, yielding magnosalin 4 in 40% isolated yield using continuous flow.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the applicability of the method to the synthesis of complex natural products, offering a more efficient alternative to traditional batch methods."}]

Data Code Availability
No links provided.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study performed optimization of the continuous flow synthesis by varying flow rate, catalyst loading, and irradiation wavelength. The study also tested the effect of electron relays on the dimerization of styrenes.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 presents the optimization study for the continuous flow synthesis of t-DCzCB, showing the effects of varying flow rate, catalyst loading, and irradiation wavelength on yield. Scheme 4 illustrates the batch and continuous flow synthesis of t-DCzCB. Scheme 5 shows the substrate scope examination of the carbazole dimers. Scheme 7 shows the dimerization of electron rich styrenes using continuous flow conditions. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the optimization process, the substrate scope, and the overall reaction outcomes.

Three Takeaways
The core novel contribution is the development of a continuous flow protocol for organophotoredox-catalyzed dimerization of vinylcarbazoles and styrenes, providing a more efficient and scalable route to cyclobutane materials and natural products. The strongest evidence is the reduction in catalyst loading from 3 mol% (batch) to 0.1 mol% (continuous flow) for t-DCzCB synthesis, while maintaining a high yield. The primary limitation is the solubility challenges encountered with some substrates, which required adjustments to reaction conditions. Future work could focus on exploring different solvents or additives to improve substrate solubility and expand the scope of the methodology.