Executive Summary
This study introduces a subgroup-discovery (SGD) artificial intelligence approach to identify design rules for selective oxidation catalysts, using data from high-throughput experimentation (HTE) and density-functional-theory (DFT) calculations. The research aims to overcome the challenges in designing heterogeneous catalysts, where the number of effective catalysts is small compared to the vast material possibilities. The methodology involves synthesizing and testing 120 SiO2-supported catalysts containing ruthenium, tungsten, and phosphorus in the catalytic oxidation of propylene via HTE. The SGD analysis uses temperature and ten catalyst composition parameters, derived from calculated free-atom properties, to identify key parameters associated with high catalytic performance. The primary findings reveal that temperature, phosphorus content, and composition-weighted electronegativity are crucial parameters for achieving high yields of acrolein and acrylic acid. The SGD-derived rules not only reflect the underlying processes related to high performance but also guide the design of more complex catalysts with up to five elements. The novelty lies in the application of SGD to experimental and theoretical data to identify design rules for catalysts, which can then be used to guide the design of more complex catalysts. The approach is significant because it provides a method for identifying key parameters and constraints that are associated with exceptional catalytic performance, which is particularly useful in the context of complex materials and reaction conditions. The main limitation is that the SGD rules are expected to describe outstanding materials whose performance is governed by the same processes governing the reactivity of the exceptional materials in the input data sets used for training. Therefore, it is unclear if the SG rules can identify exceptional materials and conditions for any arbitrary ruthenium content or for V Ç and V ^ elements which have significantly different radii compared to tungsten.

Research Context
The design of heterogeneous catalysts is challenging due to the complexity of materials and processes governing reactivity and the scarcity of effective catalysts. Traditional methods, such as explicit atomistic modeling, are impractical due to computational limitations. High-throughput experimentation (HTE) offers a solution by testing large material libraries, but analyzing the resulting data to guide further experimentation is difficult. Global models are trained to describe all materials and reaction conditions simultaneously, which may not be optimal for identifying the most promising materials. This work addresses the need for alternative approaches by applying the subgroup-discovery (SGD) artificial-intelligence approach to identify key physicochemical parameters and constraints associated with high catalytic performance. This approach contrasts with prior methods by focusing on identifying local behaviors and rules that are associated with exceptional performance, rather than attempting to model all materials and reaction conditions simultaneously.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to identify key physicochemical parameters and constraints that describe materials and reaction conditions with outstanding catalytic performance in the selective oxidation of propylene. The study hypothesizes that the application of the subgroup-discovery (SGD) approach to a combined dataset from high-throughput experimentation (HTE) and theoretical calculations can identify these key parameters and constraints, which are referred to as SG rules. The alternative hypothesis is that the global models would be more effective in predicting the catalytic performance. The study aims to identify the key parameters and rules that are particularly associated with high performance. The study differs from prior work by using the SGD approach to identify local behaviors and rules that are associated with exceptional performance, rather than attempting to model all materials and reaction conditions simultaneously. The study also aims to guide the design of more complex catalysts.

Methodological Details
The study employed a combined experimental and computational approach to identify design rules for selective oxidation catalysts. The study design involved high-throughput experimentation (HTE) and subgroup-discovery (SGD) analysis. The participants/sample consisted of 120 SiO2-supported catalysts containing ruthenium, tungsten, and phosphorus. The catalysts were synthesized and tested in the catalytic oxidation of propylene. The materials used included ruthenium, tungsten, and phosphorus, supported on SiO2. The data used included the product yield measured by HTE as the target, and the temperature and ten composition-dependent physicochemical properties evaluated with density-functional-theory (DFT) calculations as candidate descriptive parameters. The procedure involved synthesizing the catalysts, testing them in the catalytic oxidation of propylene, and using the SGD approach to analyze the data. The HTE measurements were performed in tubular, fixed-bed reactors with a feed of Ar, H2O, N2, O2, and propylene (C3H6) with molar rates of 4.015, 4.015, 104.40, 20.08, and 1.57 mmol/h, respectively. The same mass of catalyst was used in all reactions. The SGD analysis used the yield of oxygenates as the target, defined as the molar rate of acrolein and acrylic acid divided by the molar rate of propylene in the feed. The candidate descriptive parameters were the temperature and ten parameters related to the composition and chemical nature of the catalyst materials, derived from calculated free-atom properties. The analysis involved the use of the SGD approach to identify key parameters and constraints on their values. The SGD approach starts with the generation of a pool of propositions (π), statements about the data that apply only to a portion of the data set. For the case of continuous candidate descriptive parameters, the propositions are inequalities constraining their values. Then, SGD identifies selectors (σ), i.e., statements formed by a number of propositions and the "AND" connector (denoted "∧"), that result in the selection of subgroups of materials and conditions with the most outstanding distributions of the target values with respect to the whole data set. The quality function used in the SGD analysis is based on the coverage and the cumulative-distribution-function formulation of the Jensen-Shanon divergence. The study did not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study did not mention ethics/IRB.

Procedures Architectures
The study employed a multi-faceted approach combining high-throughput experimentation (HTE), density-functional-theory (DFT) calculations, and subgroup-discovery (SGD) analysis. The HTE setup involved a tubular, fixed-bed reactor for the catalytic oxidation of propylene. The reactor feed consisted of Ar, H2O, N2, O2, and propylene. The catalyst materials were three-component catalysts prepared on a SiO2 pseudo-liquid support. The atomic structures of the tested catalysts were not known in detail. The DFT calculations were performed using the DFT-PBEsol and the FHI-aims code. The per-element free-atom properties were converted into system-specific properties by taking the composition-weighted average. The SGD approach was used to identify key physicochemical descriptive parameters and constraints on their values. The SGD approach starts with the generation of a pool of propositions (π), statements about the data that apply only to a portion of the data set. For the case of continuous candidate descriptive parameters, the propositions are inequalities constraining their values. Then, SGD identifies selectors (σ), i.e., statements formed by a number of propositions and the "AND" connector (denoted "∧"), that result in the selection of subgroups of materials and conditions with the most outstanding distributions of the target values with respect to the whole data set. The quality function used in the SGD analysis is based on the coverage and the cumulative-distribution-function formulation of the Jensen-Shanon divergence. The SGD analysis identified rules that describe the exceptional SG behavior. The parameters entering these propositions are the key, most relevant, descriptive parameters, out of all the offered ones, associated with the desired reactivity. The novelty lies in the application of SGD to experimental and theoretical data to identify design rules for catalysts, which can then be used to guide the design of more complex catalysts.

Key Results
The study identified key parameters associated with outstanding oxygenate production from propylene. The average oxygenates yield over the whole data set was 4.83%, with a maximum of 26.85%. The SGD analysis identified a subgroup (SG) of 15 data points, approximately 1.2% of the data set, with an average oxygenates yield of 24.15%, which is five times higher than the average on the whole data set. The SG was described by rules on three descriptive parameters: 280 ≤ Temperature ≤ 300°C, Phosphorus content > 0.55, and 3.910 ≤ Composition-averaged electronegativity < 4.002 eV. The study also examined four- and five-component catalysts. The highest yield of oxygenates achieved for each four-component composition was shown in Figure 4A. The catalyst achieving the highest yield of oxygenates (60.19% at 400°C) contained 0.35 molar fraction of tellurium and lies within the window of composition-averaged electronegativity values suggested by the SG rules. The five-component catalyst corresponding to the highest yield of oxygenates (59.60% at 400°C) contained tantalum and the composition-averaged electronegativity for this material was 3.947 eV. The SGD analysis of the four- and five-component HTE data identified a SG containing 18 data points, i.e., ca. 2.4% of the data set. The rules describing this SG constraint the values of three parameters: Temperature ≥ 360°C, L ã+1 ≤ 1.001 Å, and VH < -1.593 eV. The SGD rules were not strongly affected by variations on the data used for their derivation.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the SGD approach can effectively identify key parameters and constraints for designing selective oxidation catalysts. The identified SG rules, particularly those related to temperature, phosphorus content, and composition-weighted electronegativity, provide insights into the underlying processes associated with high catalytic performance. The results indicate that the dilution of metal active sites on a phosphate matrix at high phosphorus loadings may favor selectivity. The study demonstrates the potential of the SGD-HTE-&theory approach to identify generalizable rules describing exceptional performance. The study provides a local modeling approach suitable for the search of exceptional materials whose structures and functions are hardly modeled explicitly by theory. The SG rules derived in this study are expected to describe outstanding materials whose performance is governed by the same processes governing the reactivity of the exceptional materials in the input data sets used for training.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the scope of the SGD rules, which are expected to describe outstanding materials whose performance is governed by the same processes governing the reactivity of the exceptional materials in the input data sets used for training. Therefore, it is unclear if the SG rules can identify exceptional materials and conditions for any arbitrary ruthenium content or for V Ç and V ^ elements which have significantly different radii compared to tungsten. The study acknowledges that different mechanisms may operate on these materials, which could also lead to exceptional performance. The study also notes that the SG rule on the reaction temperature derived based on the three-component materials data set is not transferable to the four-component ones. The study does not address the potential for bias in the selection of candidate descriptive parameters. The study does not provide details on the specific hardware used for the HTE experiments. The study does not mention the random seed used for the SGD analysis.

Claims
[{"description": "The SGD approach can identify key parameters and constraints for designing selective oxidation catalysts.", "supporting_evidence": "The study identified rules on three descriptive parameters: 280 ≤ Temperature ≤ 300°C, Phosphorus content > 0.55, and 3.910 ≤ Composition-averaged electronegativity < 4.002 eV, which described a subgroup with an average oxygenates yield of 24.15%.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the use of SGD as a tool for catalyst design and optimization."}, {"description": "Temperature, phosphorus content, and composition-weighted electronegativity are key parameters for achieving high yields of acrolein and acrylic acid.", "supporting_evidence": "The SGD analysis identified these parameters as defining the SG with the highest oxygenates yield.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This provides guidance for the design of catalysts with improved performance."}, {"description": "The SG rules derived from the three-component materials can guide the design of more complex catalysts.", "supporting_evidence": "The four- and five-component catalysts achieved oxygenate yields up to twice as large as those obtained with three-component materials, and the catalyst achieving the highest yield of oxygenates (60.19% at 400°C) contained 0.35 molar fraction of tellurium and lies within the window of composition-averaged electronegativity values suggested by the SG rules.", "contradicting_evidence": "The SG rule on the reaction temperature derived based on the three-component materials data set is not transferable to the four-component ones.", "implications": "This demonstrates the potential of the SGD-HTE-&theory approach to identify generalizable rules describing exceptional performance."}, {"description": "The highest oxygenate yields are observed for intermediate temperatures.", "supporting_evidence": "The rule on the temperature highlights that the highest yields of oxygenates are observed for intermediate temperatures within the tested range of 200-400ºC.", "contradicting_evidence": "The four-and five-component materials achieve the highest yields of oxygenates at higher temperatures (400 ºC) compared to the the three-component systems (300ºC).", "implications": "This suggests that temperature is a critical factor in optimizing catalyst performance."}]

Robustness Ablation Notes
The SGD rules were not strongly affected by variations on the data used for their derivation. Similar SG rules are obtained when the training is performed with randomly-selected 90% of the data points or when the data points presenting yield of oxygenates lower than 3% are excluded from training.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows the propylene conversion vs. oxygenates selectivity profiles and the distribution of yield of oxygenates in the dataset. Figure 2C shows the rule on the temperature. Figure 2D shows the rule on the phosphorus content. Figure 2F shows the rule on the composition-averaged electronegativity. Figure 3B shows the ternary diagram. Figure 4A shows the composition-averaged electronegativity (VY) for the selected V Ç and the molar contents. Figure 5C shows the rules describing the SG.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the application of the subgroup-discovery (SGD) approach to experimental and theoretical data from high-throughput experimentation (HTE) and density-functional-theory (DFT) calculations to identify design rules for selective oxidation catalysts.

(2) The strongest evidence is the identification of key parameters, including temperature, phosphorus content, and composition-weighted electronegativity, which are associated with high yields of acrolein and acrylic acid. The SG rules on these key parameters not only rationalize a local reactivity pattern particularly associated with exceptional catalytic performance, but also guide the design of more complex catalysts. A five-component material containing ruthenium, tungsten, phosphorus, tellurium and tantalum in the composition, which presents an oxygenate yield more than twice as large as any observation in data set used for training, is captured by the SG rules.

(3) The primary limitation is the scope of the SGD rules, which are expected to describe outstanding materials whose performance is governed by the same processes governing the reactivity of the exceptional materials in the input data sets used for training. Therefore, it is unclear if the SG rules can identify exceptional materials and conditions for any arbitrary ruthenium content or for V Ç and V ^ elements which have significantly different radii compared to tungsten. Future work could focus on expanding the dataset to include a wider range of materials and reaction conditions to improve the generalizability of the SGD rules.