Executive Summary
This paper reports the 30-step enantioselective total synthesis of madangamine E, a complex natural product, enabled by a novel organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction. The key step involves a highly enantioselective intramolecular Michael addition of a prochiral ketone to a tethered β,β'-disubstituted nitroolefin, constructing a chiral bicyclic core with near-perfect enantio- and diastereoselectivity and establishing three stereogenic centers, including a quaternary carbon. The reaction used Jacobsen's thiourea catalyst 9f, achieving 99% enantiomeric excess (ee). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations were used to probe the reaction mechanism, revealing the importance of hydrogen bonding interactions in the transition state. The synthesis also involved a one-pot oxidation-lactamization, a two-step Z-selective olefination, and ring-closing metathesis (RCM) reactions. The novel desymmetrization reaction provides a new approach for constructing stereogenic quaternary carbon centers from β,β'-dialkylsubstituted nitroolefins. The main limitation is the sensitivity of certain reactions to substrate geometry and the quality of reagents. The work demonstrates the utility of catalytic enantioselective desymmetrization reactions in the synthesis of complex natural products.

Research Context
The study addresses the need for efficient methods to synthesize complex natural products, particularly those with significant stereochemical complexity, which are important in medicinal chemistry. Existing syntheses of madangamines have limitations. Prior syntheses of madangamine D used stereoselective cyclocondensation, while syntheses of madangamines A, C, and E used N-acyl-iminium cyclization. These methods differ from the current approach, which uses a catalytic enantioselective desymmetrization reaction to construct the AC bicyclic motif, providing a rigid scaffold for further elaboration.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a new organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction can be developed and applied to the total synthesis of madangamine E. The primary hypothesis is that a highly enantioselective intramolecular Michael addition of a prochiral ketone to a tethered β,β'-disubstituted nitroolefin can be achieved using a chiral catalyst, leading to the efficient construction of a chiral bicyclic core with high stereocontrol. The alternative hypothesis is that the reaction will not be sufficiently selective or efficient to be useful in a total synthesis. The study also investigates the reaction mechanism using DFT calculations, hypothesizing that specific catalyst-substrate interactions stabilize the transition state and determine enantioselectivity. The study differs from prior work by focusing on a desymmetrization approach to construct the bicyclic core, rather than cyclocondensation or N-acyl-iminium cyclization.

Methodological Details
The study employed a synthetic organic chemistry approach, with the goal of synthesizing madangamine E. The key methodological innovation was the development and application of a new organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction. The study involved the synthesis of various intermediates and the optimization of reaction conditions. The primary data was the yield, enantiomeric excess (ee), and diastereomeric ratio (dr) of the synthesized compounds at each step. The study used commercially available 1,4-cyclohexanedione monoethylene acetal as a starting material. The key reaction involved the intramolecular Michael addition of a 4-aminocyclohexanone derivative possessing a tethered β,β'-disubstituted nitroolefin. The study investigated a range of chiral amine organocatalysts, including trans-cyclohexanediamine and proline-derived scaffolds, using 20 mol% catalyst loading and dichloromethane as a solvent. The reaction was performed at room temperature. The enantioselectivity was determined using chiral HPLC or GC. The relative and absolute stereochemical configuration of the products was established by single-crystal X-ray diffraction analysis. DFT calculations were performed to investigate the reaction mechanism. The study did not specify preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The ethics statement is not provided.

Procedures Architectures
The core of the methodology is the development of a novel organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction. The reaction uses a bifunctional primary amine thiourea organocatalyst. The study investigated several catalysts, including Jacobsen's thiourea catalyst 9f and a simplified bifunctional primary amine catalyst 9e. The model substrate was methyl-substituted nitroolefin 7. The reaction pathway involves the addition of the primary amine of the catalyst to the ketone substrate, forming a hemiaminal intermediate, which then forms an imine. An enamine is formed by tautomerization. DFT calculations identified the most energetically favorable transition structure (TS1), which led to a computed 99% ee. The synthesis of madangamine E involved multiple steps, including reductive amination, N-tosylation, oxidative cleavage, Henry reaction, dehydration, Michael addition, selenoxide elimination, ketone protection, reduction of the nitro group, Boc-PMB-amine protection, ketone formation, dehydrogenation, epoxidation, Wittig homologation, aldehyde reduction, amine deprotection, reductive amination, oxidative lactamization, RCM, and double amide reduction. The study used various reagents and conditions, including LiAlH4, IBX-NMO, hydrogen peroxide, NaOH, (methoxymethyl)triphenylphosphonium chloride, NaHMDS, Grubbs 1st and 2nd generation catalysts, and Hoveyda-Grubbs 2nd generation catalyst. The new element is the desymmetrization reaction, which enables the construction of the bicyclic core.

Key Results
The key result is the successful 30-step total synthesis of madangamine E, enabled by a new organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction. The intramolecular Michael addition of nitroolefin 7, using Jacobsen's thiourea catalyst 9f, gave bicyclic Michael adduct 8 in 70% yield and 99% ee. The simplified catalyst 9e yielded 8 in 51% yield and 96% ee. DFT calculations predicted 99% ee, consistent with experimental results. The key desymmetrization step, using catalyst 9f on nitroolefin 17E, provided bicyclic nitroalkane 18 in 95% yield and >99% ee. The RCM reaction of 25 gave tetracyclic enone 26 in 82% yield. The final double amide reduction yielded synthetic madangamine E (1). The study reports the Z-selectivity of the skipped diene 28 was 4.3:1. The study compared the results with previous syntheses of madangamine E, but does not report specific quantitative comparisons.

Interpretation Implications
The findings demonstrate the utility of catalytic enantioselective desymmetrization reactions for constructing complex molecular scaffolds, particularly those with quaternary carbon stereocenters. The high enantioselectivity observed in the Michael addition is attributed to specific hydrogen bonding interactions in the transition state, as revealed by DFT calculations. The study suggests that the choice of catalyst and the substrate's structural features are crucial for achieving high stereocontrol. The results support the use of desymmetrization reactions for the rapid generation of stereochemical complexity in natural product synthesis. The study implies that the reaction mechanism involves a cooperative push/pull-type mechanism stabilized by hydrogen bonding.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's main limitation is the sensitivity of certain reactions to substrate geometry and the quality of the reagents. The attempted application of Amat's Wittig reaction was unsuccessful. The study does not mention the random seed used for calculations. The study does not report the demographics of the participants, as it is a synthetic chemistry study. The study does not provide information about the external validity of the findings. The study's results are consistent with the existing literature on organocatalysis and natural product synthesis. The study does not explicitly address any contradictions with prior literature. The study does not report any subgroup effects.

Claims
[{"description": "A novel organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction was developed and successfully applied to the total synthesis of madangamine E.", "supporting_evidence": "The total synthesis of madangamine E was achieved in 30 steps, with the key step being a highly enantioselective intramolecular Michael addition reaction. The Michael addition of nitroolefin 7, using Jacobsen's thiourea catalyst 9f, gave bicyclic Michael adduct 8 in 70% yield and 99% ee (Figure 2B).", "contradicting_evidence": "No evidence contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This demonstrates a new approach for constructing complex natural products and highlights the potential of organocatalysis in this field."}, {"description": "The developed desymmetrization reaction provides excellent enantioselectivity, as demonstrated by the high ee values.", "supporting_evidence": "The Michael addition of nitroolefin 7 with catalyst 9f yielded 99% ee, and with catalyst 9e yielded 96% ee. The key desymmetrization step, using catalyst 9f on nitroolefin 17E, provided bicyclic nitroalkane 18 in >99% ee (Figure 4B).", "contradicting_evidence": "No evidence contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This high level of stereocontrol allows for the efficient construction of chiral centers, including quaternary carbons, which are common in complex natural products."}, {"description": "DFT calculations support the proposed mechanism and explain the observed enantioselectivity.", "supporting_evidence": "DFT calculations identified the most energetically favorable transition structure (TS1), which led to a computed 99% ee, in excellent agreement with the experimental results. The transition structure benefits from several hydrogen bonding interactions involving the thiourea, nitro group, and the enamine moieties (Figure 2C, Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "No evidence contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This provides a deeper understanding of the reaction mechanism and supports the design of more efficient catalysts in the future."}, {"description": "The developed route to access nitroolefin 17 was scalable and efficient.", "supporting_evidence": "The restructured route to access nitroolefin 17 began with a reductive amination of 1,4-cyclohexanedione monoethylene acetal (10) with allylamine and subsequent N-tosylation. The Michael addition reaction of an organo-zinc-copper complex, gave the branched nitroalkane 14 in 90% yield and proved highly scalable (17 g scale) (Figure 4A).", "contradicting_evidence": "No evidence contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This demonstrates the practicality of the synthetic route for the production of the target molecule."}, {"description": "The study successfully completed the total synthesis of madangamine E.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports the successful 30-step total synthesis of madangamine E, with all analytical data consistent with that reported by Chida and Sato and by the isolation team of Andersen.", "contradicting_evidence": "No evidence contradicts this claim.", "implications": "This demonstrates the utility of the developed reaction in the context of a complex natural product synthesis."}]

Data Code Availability
See Supporting Information for detailed synthetic procedures and computational methods.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study investigated a range of chiral amine organocatalysts. The study also investigated ketone protection and observed that upon treatment with catalytic p-toluenesulfonic acid in methanol, methyl enol ether 19 was observed in good yield. The study also investigated the dehydrogenation of ketone 20, with Nicolaou's IBX-NMO-mediated oxidation reaction proving optimal.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not explicitly mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2A illustrates the previously reported desymmetrizing intramolecular Michael addition to α,β-unsaturated esters. Figure 2B shows the structures of the tested catalysts and the catalytic cycle. Figure 2C shows the proposed reaction mechanism with DFT calculations. Figure 3 provides the transition structure (TS1) from DFT calculations. Figure 4A shows the new route to access nitroolefin 17. Figure 4B shows the key organocatalytic enantioselective desymmetrization. These figures are critical for understanding the reaction mechanism, the catalyst design, and the overall synthetic strategy, and they provide the visual context for the quantitative results.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of a highly enantioselective organocatalytic desymmetrization reaction that enables the construction of a chiral bicyclic core with exquisite enantio- and diastereoselectivity and introduces a new method for the construction of stereogenic quaternary carbon centers from β,β'-dialkylsubstituted nitroolefins. (2) The strongest evidence is the successful 30-step total synthesis of madangamine E, with the key desymmetrization step providing bicyclic nitroalkane 18 in 95% yield and >99% ee, and the DFT calculations supporting the proposed mechanism and explaining the observed enantioselectivity. (3) The primary limitation is the sensitivity of certain reactions to substrate geometry and the quality of the reagents, as evidenced by the challenges encountered in the Wittig reaction. Future work could focus on expanding the scope of the desymmetrization reaction to other substrates and exploring alternative strategies to overcome the limitations encountered in the synthesis.