Executive Summary
GUIDEMOL is a Python application with a graphical user interface (GUI) built using the tkinter package, designed to calculate molecular descriptors and generate 3D grid representations of molecules. The software leverages the RDKit library for chemoinformatics tasks, providing an accessible tool for users without programming expertise. The application calculates descriptors implemented in RDKit, and generates 3D grid representations using electrostatic potential or voxel encoding. The GUI allows users to select input files, specify parameters for 3D grid generation, and choose which descriptors to calculate. A command-line interface (CLI) is also available for generating 3D grids. The software is designed to facilitate routine chemoinformatics tasks and is easily extensible for incorporating other molecular descriptors or adapting to other chemoinformatics applications. The source code is available under a BSD license. The primary finding is the development of a user-friendly interface for calculating molecular descriptors and 3D grid representations. The novelty lies in the combination of RDKit with a GUI built using tkinter, offering an easy-to-use tool for both calculating standard descriptors and generating 3D representations. A key limitation is the potential for inconsistencies in descriptor values across different runs or operating systems, as noted for certain descriptors. The application provides an accessible tool for calculating molecular descriptors and generating 3D representations, which can be useful for scientists and students in the field of chemoinformatics.

Research Context
The calculation of molecular descriptors is central to QSPR/QSAR methodologies, with various software programs available. Existing tools include open-source platforms like CDK, with GUI implementations such as PaDEL and CDK Descriptor Calculator GUI. Other options include command-line tools like BlueDesc, web services like OCHEM and ChemDes, and proprietary software such as MOE and alvaDesc. RDKit is a Python-based open-source software with a wide range of chemoinformatics tools, including descriptor calculation. The existing tools have varying levels of accessibility and may require programming skills. GUIDEMOL addresses the need for an accessible GUI for calculating molecular descriptors using RDKit, particularly for users with limited programming experience. The software also provides a means to generate 3D grid representations of molecules, which is a growing area of interest for machine learning applications.

Research Question Hypothesis
The primary research question is: Can a user-friendly GUI be developed using RDKit and tkinter to calculate molecular descriptors and generate 3D grid representations of molecules? The implicit hypothesis is that the combination of RDKit and tkinter will enable the creation of an accessible and functional interface for chemoinformatics tasks, specifically for calculating molecular descriptors and generating 3D grid representations. This application is designed to provide an easy-to-use interface for scientists and students with no programming skills. The alternative hypothesis is that the implementation of a GUI for molecular descriptor calculation and 3D grid generation would be too complex or not user-friendly. The approach differs from prior work by providing a GUI-based interface for RDKit, simplifying the calculation of molecular descriptors and the generation of 3D grid representations. The success of the application would be indicated by its ability to calculate the descriptors and generate the 3D grid representations, and by its ease of use for the target audience.

Methodological Details
The study involved the development of a Python application, GUIDEMOL, using the RDKit library and the tkinter package. The software provides a GUI for calculating molecular descriptors and generating 3D grid representations of molecules. The application was developed as a minimalist interface for routine chemoinformatics tasks. The GUI was built with various tkinter widgets, including buttons, checkbuttons, radiobuttons, entries, and labels. The grid geometry manager was used to control the layout of the GUI. The generation of 3D structures from SMILES strings was performed using the RDKit function MMFFOptimizeMolecule, with the arguments mmffVariant='MMFF94' and maxIters=5000. Several options are available before generating the models: remove metals, keep the largest fragment, or neutralize. Hydrogen atoms are added using Chem.AddHs(). The GUI enables the selection of 3D descriptors available in the RDKit rdMolDescriptors module, including RDF, MORSE, WHIM, AUTOCORR3D, GETAWAY, PEOE_VSA, and SMR_VSA. The exact molecular weight can also be chosen. The grid of electrostatic potential is generated by the Gasteiger or MMFF partial atomic charges calculated with RDKit (AllChem.ComputeGasteigerCharges() or GetMMFFPartialCharge(), respectively). Voxelization of atoms is calculated in a user-defined 3D grid based on an atomic property. The molecular descriptors are saved in a CSV output file, including the molecule name and ID number. A command-line interface (CLI) is also provided for calculating EP and voxel grids. The CLI uses the command guidemol_version.py with various parameters to specify input/output files, grid type, atomic property, grid center coordinates, cube size, and cutoff/sigma values. No information is provided regarding participants, sample size, or study preregistration. The software is available at https://github.com/jairesdesousa/guidemol under the three-clause Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) license.

Procedures Architectures
GUIDEMOL is a Python application that uses the RDKit library for chemoinformatics tasks and the tkinter package for the GUI. The GUI is built using various tkinter widgets, including buttons, checkbuttons, radiobuttons, entries, and labels, controlled by the grid geometry manager. The application allows users to generate 3D molecular structures from SMILES strings using the RDKit function MMFFOptimizeMolecule. The 3D structures can be preprocessed by removing metals, keeping the largest fragment, or neutralizing the molecule. The application calculates molecular descriptors available in the RDKit rdMolDescriptors module, including RDF, MORSE, WHIM, AUTOCORR3D, GETAWAY, PEOE_VSA, and SMR_VSA. The application also generates 3D grid representations of molecules based on electrostatic potential or voxel encoding. The electrostatic potential grid is generated using Gasteiger or MMFF partial atomic charges calculated with RDKit. Voxelization is calculated in a user-defined 3D grid based on an atomic property. The CLI uses the command guidemol_version.py with parameters for input/output files, grid type, atomic property, grid center coordinates, cube size, and cutoff/sigma values. The application's components include the GUI built with tkinter, the RDKit library for molecular descriptor calculation and 3D structure generation, and the CLI for 3D grid calculations. The GUI provides an interface for users to select input files, specify parameters, and trigger calculations. The CLI provides an alternative method for generating 3D grids. The software's architecture allows for the calculation of standard molecular descriptors and the generation of 3D grid representations. The novelty lies in the combination of RDKit with a GUI built using tkinter, offering an easy-to-use tool for both calculating standard descriptors and generating 3D representations.

Key Results
The primary result is the development of a GUI for the calculation of molecular descriptors using RDKit and the generation of 3D grid representations. The application allows users to calculate descriptors from the RDKit rdMolDescriptors module and generate 3D grids based on electrostatic potential or voxel encoding. The GUI provides an accessible interface for users without programming skills. A command-line interface is also available for 3D grid calculations. The application enables the calculation of various descriptors, including RDF, MORSE, WHIM, AUTOCORR3D, GETAWAY, PEOE_VSA, and SMR_VSA. The exact molecular weight can also be calculated. The grid of electrostatic potential is generated by the Gasteiger or MMFF partial atomic charges. Voxelization of atoms is calculated in a user-defined 3D grid based on an atomic property. The molecular descriptors are saved in a CSV output file. It was observed that for some molecules, and some GETAWAY, MORSE and WHIM descriptors, different values were obtained with the same RDKit version (2022.9.5) in different runs or in different operating systems. An example was with the 3D structure generated for COc1ccc(cc1(OC))Br.

Interpretation Implications
The development of GUIDEMOL provides a user-friendly interface for calculating molecular descriptors and generating 3D grid representations, which facilitates access to chemoinformatics tools for scientists and students. The application's design allows for the calculation of standard molecular descriptors and the generation of 3D grid representations, which can be used for various applications, including QSAR/QSPR studies and machine learning projects. The GUI simplifies the process of calculating these descriptors, making it accessible to users without programming skills. The availability of a CLI provides an alternative method for generating 3D grids. The potential inconsistency in descriptor values across different runs or operating systems suggests a need for careful consideration when interpreting results and using the application for research purposes. The application's design supports the use of 3D representations in machine learning applications.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation is the observed inconsistency in the values of certain descriptors (GETAWAY, MORSE, and WHIM) when calculated for the same molecule with the same RDKit version in different runs or operating systems. This inconsistency raises concerns about the reproducibility of results and the reliability of the calculated descriptors. The application's reliance on RDKit's MMFFOptimizeMolecule function for 3D structure generation could be a limitation if the generated structures are not accurate or representative of the molecules' conformations. The lack of information on the specific parameters used for the 3D grid generation (e.g., grid size, resolution, cutoff distances) and the potential impact of these parameters on the results is another limitation. The application's external validity is limited by the fact that the GUI is designed for the calculation of molecular descriptors and 3D grid representations, and does not include other chemoinformatics tasks. The lack of information on the specific datasets used for testing the application also limits the ability to assess its performance and generalizability. No information is provided about the inclusion or exclusion criteria for the molecules used in the study.

Claims
[{"description": "GUIDEMOL provides a user-friendly GUI for calculating molecular descriptors using RDKit.", "supporting_evidence": "The application is designed to facilitate access to descriptors by scientists or students, and requires no programming skills.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "The GUI simplifies the process of calculating molecular descriptors, making it accessible to a wider audience."}, {"description": "GUIDEMOL generates 3D grid representations of molecules with electrostatic potential or voxels.", "supporting_evidence": "The application enables the generation of 3D grid representations using electrostatic potential or voxel encoding.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "The 3D grid representations can be used for various applications, including QSAR/QSPR studies and machine learning projects."}, {"description": "A command-line interface (CLI) is available for calculating EP and voxel grids.", "supporting_evidence": "The CLI uses the command guidemol_version.py with various parameters to specify input/output files, grid type, atomic property, grid center coordinates, cube size, and cutoff/sigma values.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "The CLI provides an alternative method for generating 3D grids."}, {"description": "Inconsistencies were observed in the values of certain descriptors (GETAWAY, MORSE, and WHIM) across different runs or operating systems.", "supporting_evidence": "Different values were obtained with the same RDKit version (2022.9.5) in different runs or in different operating systems for some molecules and descriptors.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This inconsistency raises concerns about the reproducibility of results and the reliability of the calculated descriptors. Careful consideration is needed when interpreting results."}]

Data Code Availability
The source code is available at https://github.com/jairesdesousa/guidemol under the three-clause Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD) license.

Key Figures Tables
The paper includes a figure (Fig. 1) depicting the GUIDEMOL interface. The figure shows the various tkinter widgets used in the GUI, including buttons, checkbuttons, radiobuttons, entries, and labels. The figure illustrates the user interface's layout and the options available for selecting input files, specifying parameters, and triggering calculations. The figure is critical as it provides a visual representation of the application's user interface.

Three Takeaways
(1) GUIDEMOL is a Python application that offers a user-friendly GUI for calculating molecular descriptors and generating 3D grid representations, making chemoinformatics tools more accessible to a wider audience. (2) The application provides an easy-to-use interface for calculating standard molecular descriptors and generating 3D representations, which can be useful for scientists and students in the field of chemoinformatics. (3) A key limitation is the potential for inconsistencies in descriptor values across different runs or operating systems, which warrants caution in interpreting results and highlights the need for further investigation into the reproducibility of the calculated descriptors. Future work could focus on addressing these inconsistencies and improving the robustness of the descriptor calculations.