Executive Summary
This study investigates the spatial distribution of Na+ ions within supercooled aqueous nanodroplets using molecular dynamics simulations and a reference electrostatic model. The research addresses the role of ions in the chemical reactivity of atmospheric and man-made aerosols, particularly in the context of electrosprayed droplets used for preserving macromolecule conformations. The simulations reveal that at supercooling (200 K), a low-density core of tetrahedrally coordinated water expels Na+ ions to a denser, more disordered subsurface region. This contrasts with the room temperature (300 K) scenario, where the radial distribution of Na+ ions is nearly uniform. The study introduces an analytical model, termed "electrostatic confinement" (EC), which predicts a harmonic potential for the ion centered at the droplet's center of mass. The model's predictions align with simulation findings at room temperature but not at supercooling. Key findings include: (1) At 200 K, the Na+ ion distribution peaks in the subsurface, correlating with a region of high density and disorder, as opposed to the droplet core. (2) At 300 K, the Na+ ion distribution is nearly uniform. (3) The analytical model, based on electrostatic and surface energy considerations, provides a framework for understanding ion behavior. The novelty lies in the observation of ion expulsion from the core at supercooling, linked to the formation of a low-density, tetrahedrally ordered water core. This phenomenon has implications for understanding the behavior of electrosprayed droplets and their use in preserving macromolecule conformations. The main limitation is the focus on a single ion and multiple ions, and the need for further investigation of the implications for Rayleigh fission and ion evaporation mechanisms in supercooled droplets.

Research Context
The spatial distribution of ions in droplets is crucial for understanding chemical reactivity in aerosols. Prior research has primarily focused on ion behavior at room or elevated temperatures, with limited investigation of supercooled conditions. Existing studies have explored the structure and stability of supercooled clusters, often using mass spectrometry techniques. However, the distribution of multiple ions and biological molecules at supercooling remains largely unknown. This study addresses the gap by examining the location of single and multiple ions in supercooled aqueous clusters, considering the role of solvent organization. The work builds upon previous research on the structure of pure supercooled water clusters, which revealed an anomalous, inverted radial density profile. The study aims to understand how the low-density core in supercooled droplets differentiates ion distribution from that at room temperature, which was not possible in earlier research due to limitations in cluster size.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How does the solvent structure in supercooled aqueous droplets influence the spatial distribution of Na+ ions? The primary hypothesis is that the low-density water core in supercooled droplets will alter the ion distribution compared to room temperature. This is based on the observation of an anomalous, inverted radial density profile in pure supercooled water clusters, where a low-density core with tetrahedral ordering is surrounded by a high-density subsurface. The study predicts that at supercooling, Na+ ions will be expelled from the core to the subsurface due to the unique solvent structure. This contrasts with the expected behavior at room temperature, where the ion distribution is predicted to be more uniform. The study also introduces an analytical model to understand the forces governing ion location in a fluctuating droplet, predicting a harmonic potential centered at the droplet's center of mass, termed "electrostatic confinement." The study's findings will support the hypothesis if the simulations show a distinct difference in ion distribution between supercooled and room temperature conditions, with the ion residing in the subsurface at low temperatures. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the effect of supercooling on ion distribution and linking it to the solvent structure.

Methodological Details
The study employed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations to investigate the behavior of Na+ ions in aqueous nanodroplets. Simulations were conducted using GROMACS v4.6.1. The water molecules were modeled using the TIP4P/2005 model, and the OPLS-AA parameters were used for Na+. The simulations were performed at 200 K, 260 K, and 300 K. The system sizes and simulation lengths are detailed in Table 1, varying from 100 to 1100 water molecules. Each nanodroplet was placed in a periodic cubic box, with the box size chosen to avoid interactions between the droplet and its periodic images. The cutoff for Coulomb and Lennard-Jones interactions was set at L/2. Simulations were carried out in the canonical ensemble (constant N, V, and T). The Nosé-Hoover thermostat was used to control the temperature with a time constant of 0.1 ps. The equations of motion were integrated using the leap-frog algorithm with a time step of 2 fs. Simulations were initiated by placing the Na+ ion at the surface (for single ion runs) or near the center (for multiple ion runs). To ensure equilibration, two simulations were run for each of N=360 and N=776 nanodroplets at 200 K, one with the ion at the center and one with the ion on the surface. Equilibration time was estimated based on the convergence of the ion densities as a function of radial distance from the droplet COM. The radial distribution of the water density ρ(r), Voronoi volume-based density ρv(r), tetrahedral order parameter qT(r), and the distance to the fifth nearest neighbor d5 were also calculated. The Voronoi cells for all O sites were computed, while the H sites were ignored. The average density as determined by the Voronoi cell volumes is defined as ρ v (r) = m N (r)/V(r). The tetrahedral order parameter, qi, was calculated using the angles between an oxygen atom and its nearest neighbor oxygen atoms. The radial function qT(r) was calculated as the average value of qi for all molecules within a spherical shell. The distance to the fifth O neighbor d5 was also calculated.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized molecular dynamics (MD) simulations implemented in GROMACS v4.6.1 to model the behavior of Na+ ions within aqueous nanodroplets. The water molecules were represented using the TIP4P/2005 model, a transferable intermolecular potential with four points. The Na+ ions were modeled using OPLS-AA parameters. The nanodroplets were simulated at three temperatures: 200 K, 260 K, and 300 K, representing supercooled and standard conditions. The system sizes varied from 100 to 1100 water molecules, with simulation lengths determined by equilibration times, ranging up to 400 ns for some systems. The simulations were performed in a periodic cubic box, with the box size chosen to minimize interactions between the droplet and its periodic images. The cutoff for interactions (Coulomb and Lennard-Jones) was set at L/2. The simulations were run in the canonical ensemble (constant N, V, and T), with temperature controlled by the Nosé-Hoover thermostat (time constant 0.1 ps). The equations of motion were integrated using the leap-frog algorithm with a time step of 2 fs. The simulations were initiated with the Na+ ion placed at the surface (for single ion runs) or near the center (for multiple ion runs). The study also introduced an analytical model to understand the forces governing ion location. This model considered the energy of a charged dielectric droplet as the sum of electrostatic and surface energy. The model predicts a harmonic potential for the ion centered at the droplet's center of mass, termed "electrostatic confinement." The model's predictions were compared with the simulation results. The key new aspect is the combination of MD simulations with an analytical model to understand the ion distribution in supercooled water droplets and the observation of ion expulsion from the core at supercooling.

Key Results
The study's primary results are based on MD simulations of Na+ ions in aqueous nanodroplets at different temperatures. At 300 K, the radial distribution of a single Na+ ion is nearly uniform, consistent with the electrostatic confinement effect. At 200 K, the Na+ ion distribution exhibits a peak in the subsurface region, coinciding with the region of highest density and disorder, as determined by the Voronoi volume-based density (ρv(r)) and the tetrahedral order parameter (qT(r)). Figure 3 shows ρ(r) and ρv(r) for pure water nanodroplets at high (300 K) and low (200 K) temperatures. At high temperatures, ρv(r) monotonically decreases with r. At low temperatures, ρv(r) shows significant layering. The Na+ radial distribution, ρNa(r), at high temperatures is approximately constant in the droplet interior. At low temperatures, the peak of ρNa(r) is located within 0.1 nm of the peak in ρv(r) for nanodroplets with N ≥ 200. The study also examined the behavior of multiple Na+ ions. Figure 4(d) and Figure 5 compare the radial distributions of multiple ions at 300 K and 200 K. At 300 K, the distributions are almost uniform, with an incipient broad maximum appearing in the outer layers. The study also introduces an analytical model, which predicts that the electrostatic confinement effect is more pronounced at low temperature, high charge, small radius, and intermediate values of the dielectric constant. The model's predictions align with simulation findings at room temperature but not at supercooling. The study found that for 776 H2O molecules and 5 Na+ ions at 300 K, the distribution decays as an exponential function fitted by 0.42 exp(-(1.14 -x)/1.2), where λPB ≈ 1.2 nm. For 1100 H2O, the fitting function is 0.40 exp(-(1.37-x)/1.3), where λPB ≈ 1.3 nm. At 200 K, the multiple ions are expelled from the drop's core and show a maximum at the same location as the single ion.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the heterogeneous solvent structure in supercooled aqueous droplets significantly influences ion distribution. The expulsion of Na+ ions from the core to the subsurface at supercooling is attributed to the formation of a low-density, tetrahedrally ordered water core. This contrasts with the room temperature scenario, where the ion distribution is nearly uniform. The analytical model, which predicts electrostatic confinement, provides a theoretical framework for understanding the forces that govern ion location. The study implies that the organization of water molecules in the droplet's core at supercooling affects the distribution of multiple ions, which cannot be explained by the non-linear Poisson-Boltzmann equation. The results highlight the importance of considering solvent structure when studying the behavior of ions in aqueous systems, particularly in the context of atmospheric and man-made aerosols. The study's findings have implications for understanding the behavior of electrosprayed droplets and their use in preserving macromolecule conformations.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation is the focus on a single Na+ ion and multiple Na+ ions, which may not fully represent the complexity of ion behavior in real-world systems. The study does not address the influence of other ions or the presence of charged macromolecules. The analytical model's predictions deviate from the simulation results at supercooling, indicating that the model may not fully capture the complex interactions in the low-density core. The study's conclusions are based on MD simulations, and the accuracy of the results depends on the chosen water model (TIP4P/2005) and the OPLS-AA parameters for Na+. The study does not explore the implications of the findings for Rayleigh fission and ion evaporation mechanisms in supercooled droplets, which are important aspects of electrospray ionization. The study does not report the random seed used for the simulations, which could affect the reproducibility of the results. The study also does not provide details on the demographics of the simulated systems. The effects of shape fluctuations, which are more significant in smaller droplets, are not fully explored. The study acknowledges that the exponential decay of the ion distribution at 200 K cannot be analyzed using the non-linear Poisson-Boltzmann equation.

Claims
[{"description": "At supercooling (200 K), the Na+ ion distribution in aqueous nanodroplets peaks in the subsurface region, not the core.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 3(f) shows that at 200 K, the peak of the Na+ radial distribution, ρNa(r), is located within 0.1 nm of the peak in ρv(r) for nanodroplets with N ≥ 200, indicating the ion resides in the high-density subsurface.", "contradicting_evidence": "At room temperature (300 K), the Na+ radial distribution is approximately constant in the droplet interior, as shown in Figure 3(e).", "implications": "This finding suggests that the solvent structure at supercooling, specifically the formation of a low-density core, significantly alters the ion distribution compared to room temperature."}, {"description": "The distribution of multiple Na+ ions at 200 K shows a maximum at the same location as the single ion.", "supporting_evidence": "Figure 4(d) and Figure 5 show that the multiple ions are expelled from the drop's core and show a maximum at the same location as the single ion.", "contradicting_evidence": "At 300 K, the distribution of multiple ions is almost uniform with an incipient broad maximum appearing in the outer layers of the droplet.", "implications": "This indicates that the low-density core at supercooling influences the distribution of multiple ions, which cannot be explained by the non-linear Poisson-Boltzmann equation."}, {"description": "The analytical model, based on electrostatic and surface energy considerations, predicts a harmonic potential for the ion centered at the droplet's center of mass (electrostatic confinement).", "supporting_evidence": "The model's energy equation (1) has the functional form of a harmonic potential, and the effect is more pronounced at low temperature, high charge, small radius, and intermediate values of the dielectric constant (Eqs. 2 and 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "The model's predictions deviate from the simulated ion distributions at supercooling.", "implications": "The model provides a theoretical framework for understanding ion behavior, but its limitations at supercooling suggest that the low-density core affects the ion location."}, {"description": "The low-density core in supercooled droplets is associated with a more ordered, tetrahedrally coordinated water structure.", "supporting_evidence": "The study's results show that the Na+ ions are expelled from the core to the subsurface, which is a region of higher density and disorder, as determined by the Voronoi volume-based density (ρv(r)) and the tetrahedral order parameter (qT(r)).", "contradicting_evidence": "The smaller cluster of N = 100 does not show a tetrahedrally organized core.", "implications": "This suggests that the formation of the low-density core and the associated tetrahedral ordering are key factors in determining the ion distribution at supercooling."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 3 is critical, showing the radial distribution of water density (ρ(r)), Voronoi volume-based density (ρv(r)), and Na+ ion density (ρNa(r)) at high and low temperatures. The axes represent the radial distance from the droplet's center of mass. The figure demonstrates the difference in ion distribution between room temperature and supercooling. Figure 4(d) and Figure 5 are also important, comparing the radial distributions of multiple ions at 300 K and 200 K, respectively.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the discovery that at supercooling, Na+ ions are expelled from the core of aqueous nanodroplets to the subsurface, driven by the formation of a low-density, tetrahedrally ordered water core.

(2) The strongest evidence comes from the MD simulations, which show a distinct peak in the Na+ ion distribution in the subsurface at 200 K (Figure 3(f)), contrasting with the nearly uniform distribution at 300 K (Figure 3(e)).

(3) The primary limitation is the focus on a single ion and multiple ions, and the lack of investigation into the implications for Rayleigh fission and ion evaporation mechanisms in supercooled droplets. Future work should explore the behavior of more complex systems and the broader implications for atmospheric chemistry and electrospray ionization.