Executive Summary
This paper reviews recent advances in bioinspired supramolecular materials designed to mimic dynamic bio-interfaces, focusing on applications in regenerative medicine and drug delivery. The study highlights the development of artificial extracellular matrices (ECMs) and membrane-deforming materials using self-assembling molecules. One approach involves stiffness-controlled peptide hydrogels, such as those formed by A16G peptide, which enhances neuronal migration in injured brain tissue when combined with N-cadherin. The migration rate of neuroblasts was significantly higher on the hydrogel containing A16G-Ncad than on A16G alone (Figure 3a). Another strategy utilizes peptide fibres for efficient incorporation and release of growth factors, exemplified by JigSAP hydrogels, which show high incorporation efficiency of EGFP-JigSAP (93 mol%) and sustained release of incorporated proteins. Furthermore, the paper discusses redox-responsive peptide fibres for controlled cargo release and phospholipid nanosheets stabilized by self-assembling peptides, which enable extended blood circulation. Finally, the study presents liposomes undergoing endocytosis-like fission by a membrane-expanding molecular machine (AzoMEx) for in vivo delivery of viruses, demonstrating the successful encapsulation and delivery of M13 phages to various organs. The key novelty lies in the biomimicry of dynamic bio-interfaces using self-assembling materials. A major limitation is the early stage of development and the need for further research to translate these findings into clinical applications.

Research Context
The dynamic actions at bio-interfaces, such as ECM, phospholipid bilayers, and membrane proteins, are crucial for cellular activities like adhesion, signal transduction, and substance transport. Current biomaterial approaches often lack the dynamic properties of these interfaces. Prior research has explored ECM and phospholipid bilayers, but these approaches often lack the dynamic properties of natural interfaces. This work addresses the need for biomaterials that can mimic the dynamic behavior of bio-interfaces, offering potential for regenerative medicine and drug delivery systems. The paper builds upon the progress in supramolecular chemistry and nanotechnology to construct and functionalize bio-interfaces with dynamic natures.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research questions revolve around developing biomimetic materials that replicate the dynamic functions of bio-interfaces to enhance cellular activities. The study investigates whether self-assembling peptide hydrogels can mimic ECM to promote neuronal migration in injured brain tissue. It is hypothesized that the incorporation of N-cadherin into A16G hydrogels will enhance neuroblast migration compared to A16G alone. The study also explores whether peptide fibres can efficiently incorporate and release growth factors, hypothesizing that JigSAP hydrogels can achieve sustained protein release. Furthermore, the research examines whether phospholipid nanosheets stabilized by self-assembling peptides can improve blood circulation profiles. Finally, the study investigates whether a membrane-expanding molecular machine (AzoMEx) can induce endocytosis-like fission for efficient in vivo delivery of viruses. The outcomes are measured by cell migration rates, protein release profiles, blood circulation times, and viral delivery efficiency. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the dynamic nature of bio-interfaces and utilizing self-assembling molecules to achieve biomimicry.

Methodological Details
The study employs various experimental techniques to investigate the properties and applications of self-assembling materials. The study design includes the synthesis and characterization of peptide-based materials, including A16G, A16G-Ncad, and JigSAP. The sample size is not explicitly mentioned for the in vivo experiments. The materials are characterized using techniques like transmission electron microscopy (TEM), molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy, and rheological analysis. In vitro experiments involve cell culture and time-lapse imaging to assess neuronal migration. In vivo studies are conducted in mouse models of ischemic stroke. The materials are injected into the injured cortex, and the effects on neuroblast migration and angiogenesis are evaluated. The materials used include A16G peptide, A16G-tagged N-cadherin (A16G-Ncad), JigSAP, VEGF-bound JigSAP, and phospholipid nanosheets. The data includes the migration rate of neuroblasts, protein release profiles, blood circulation profiles, and viral delivery efficiency. The procedure involves the synthesis and characterization of the self-assembling materials. The materials are then tested in vitro and in vivo. The analysis involves statistical comparisons of the experimental groups. The study does not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. Ethical approval was obtained for the animal experiments.

Procedures Architectures
The paper describes the design and application of several self-assembling materials. A16G peptide, a mutant of RADA16, forms hydrogels with enhanced mobility and decreased stiffness, advantageous for biomedical applications. A16G-Ncad is created by tagging N-cadherin with A16G. JigSAP, an amphiphilic peptide, is designed with a jigsaw-shaped hydrophobic surface for efficient protein incorporation and release. The peptide sequence of JigSAP is Ac-RIDARMRADIR-NH2. The JigSAP hydrogel exhibits high rigidity (1.1 x 10^4 Pa). The paper also discusses redox-responsive peptides, where the position of a methionine (Met) residue controls the kinetics of gel-sol transition. Furthermore, the study presents phospholipid nanosheets formed by mixing dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) with a cholic acid derivative conjugating a metal-binding peptide sequence PHGGGPHGG (Chol-MBP). The molar ratio of DPPC to Chol-MBP is 5:1. The nanosheets are stabilized by Cu2+ ions. The membrane-expanding molecular machine, AzoMEx, contains a diazocine core and undergoes photoisomerization to change the distance between two cationic NMe3+ moieties. The GUVDOPC/AzoMEx is formed by embedding AzoMEx in 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DOPC)-based giant unilamellar vesicle. The paper does not specify the software versions or hardware used.

Key Results
The study presents several key results. In the context of neuronal migration, the migration rate of neuroblasts was significantly higher on the hydrogel containing A16G-Ncad than on A16G alone (Figure 3a). In the in vivo study, Dcx+ (a marker for neuroblasts) was abundantly observed in the hydrogel of the mixture of A16G and A16G-Ncad, indicating efficient migration of neuroblasts into the injured neocortex (Figure 3b). For protein incorporation and release, EGFP-JigSAP was incorporated at 93 mol%, whereas non-tagged EGFP was incorporated at only 3 mol% (Figure 4h). The JigSAP hydrogel showed more efficient long-term release of the incorporated peptide-tagged proteins. 21 mol% of EGFP-JigSAP was released after 24-hour incubation at 37 °C, and the percentage increased to 39 mol% after 168 hours (Figure 4k). In contrast, the release of EGFP-5V and EGFP-RADA16 stagnated after 48 hours, with only 5 mol% and 8 mol%, respectively, released after 168 hours (Figure 4k). In the mouse model of ischaemic stroke, the number of double-positive cells with laminin and EdU increased in the injured area when VEGF-JigSAP and JigSAP peptides were used (Figure 4q and v). For blood circulation, the FL DPPC vesicles were aggregated and clogged, whereas FL DPPC/Chol-MBP/Cu nanosheets were homogeneously dispersed in the blood vessels (Figure 6f and g). In the in vivo viral delivery experiment, the infectivity of M13 phages was retained in the spleen ([25.6 ± 13.2] × 10^9 virions/mg, Figure 7o) and liver ([18.3 ± 3.2] × 10^9 virions/mg, Figure 7p) after distribution to the respective organs.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that self-assembling materials can effectively mimic the dynamic properties of bio-interfaces. The enhanced neuronal migration with A16G-Ncad hydrogels indicates that mimicking the ECM structure and function can promote tissue regeneration. The efficient incorporation and sustained release of growth factors by JigSAP hydrogels highlight the potential for controlled drug delivery. The stabilization of phospholipid nanosheets with self-assembling peptides demonstrates the possibility of improving blood circulation profiles. The endocytosis-like fission induced by AzoMEx suggests a novel approach for in vivo delivery of biomacromolecules. These results underscore the potential of supramolecular chemistry and nanotechnology to develop advanced biomaterials for regenerative medicine and drug delivery. The study implies that the dynamic properties of bio-interfaces are critical for cellular activities, and mimicking these properties can lead to significant advancements in biomedical applications.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the early stage of development and the need for further research to translate these findings into clinical applications. The study does not provide details on the sample sizes used in the in vivo experiments. The lack of information on the random seed, train/test split, and demographics limits the reproducibility of the study. The study focuses on specific applications, and the generalizability of the findings to other biological systems is not fully explored. The long-term effects and potential toxicity of the materials are not fully addressed. The study does not discuss any internal inconsistencies or subgroup effects. The external validity of the findings is limited by the use of animal models. The study does not address potential conflicts with prior literature.

Claims
[{"description": "A16G-Ncad hydrogels enhance neuroblast migration in injured brain tissue.", "supporting_evidence": "The migration rate of neuroblasts was significantly higher on the hydrogel containing A16G-Ncad than on A16G alone (Figure 3a). In vivo, Dcx+ cells were abundant in the A16G-Ncad hydrogel (Figure 3b).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the hypothesis that mimicking ECM structure and function can promote neuronal regeneration. This suggests that the addition of N-cadherin to the A16G hydrogel is critical for the observed effect."}, {"description": "JigSAP hydrogels exhibit high incorporation efficiency and sustained release of proteins.", "supporting_evidence": "EGFP-JigSAP was incorporated at 93 mol%, whereas non-tagged EGFP was incorporated at only 3 mol% (Figure 4h). 39 mol% of EGFP-JigSAP was released after 168 hours (Figure 4k).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the potential of JigSAP for controlled drug delivery. The sustained release profile suggests that JigSAP can be used to deliver growth factors over an extended period."}, {"description": "Phospholipid nanosheets stabilized by self-assembling peptides show improved blood circulation.", "supporting_evidence": "FL DPPC/Chol-MBP/Cu nanosheets were homogeneously dispersed in the blood vessels, while FL DPPC vesicles aggregated and clogged (Figure 6f and g).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the self-assembling approach of Chol-MBP is advantageous for stabilizing the bicelle morphology, enabling prolonged circulation in the blood vessel relative to the spherical vesicles."}, {"description": "AzoMEx-mediated endocytosis-like fission enables in vivo delivery of M13 phages.", "supporting_evidence": "M13 phages encapsulated in GUVDOPC/AzoMEx-pAsp showed retention of infectivity in various organs, including the spleen ([25.6 ± 13.2] × 10^9 virions/mg, Figure 7o) and liver ([18.3 ± 3.2] × 10^9 virions/mg, Figure 7p).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates a novel approach for in vivo delivery of biomacromolecules using a membrane-expanding molecular machine."}]

Data Code Availability
Data and code availability are not mentioned in the paper.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The paper does not provide information about ablations, sensitivity analyses, or stability tests.

Ethical Considerations
The study mentions ethical approval for animal experiments, but does not provide further details regarding specific considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 3 is critical, showing the enhanced neuroblast migration with A16G-Ncad. The x-axis represents time, and the y-axis represents the migration rate. Figure 4 illustrates the incorporation and release efficiency of EGFP-tagged proteins in JigSAP hydrogels. The x-axis represents time, and the y-axis represents the percentage of protein release. Figure 6 shows the blood circulation profiles of DPPC vesicles and DPPC/Chol-MBP/Cu nanosheets, with the x-axis representing time and the y-axis representing fluorescence intensity. Figure 7 shows the in vivo delivery of M13 phages.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of self-assembling materials that mimic dynamic bio-interfaces, offering new strategies for regenerative medicine and drug delivery. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the enhanced neuroblast migration with A16G-Ncad hydrogels (Figure 3a) and the efficient incorporation and sustained release of proteins by JigSAP hydrogels (Figure 4k). (3) The primary limitation is the early stage of development and the need for further research to translate these findings into clinical applications, including more detailed in vivo studies and toxicity assessments. A forward path includes optimizing the materials and exploring their efficacy in various disease models.