Executive Summary
This study investigates the fabrication of high-efficiency organic solar cells (OSCs) using slot-die coating, a scalable and roll-to-roll compatible technique, with the aim of reducing the "lab-to-fab gap." The research focuses on the PM6:Y6 active layer, coated using the green solvent o-xylene, on flexible substrates. The optimal coating parameters, including temperature and solution concentration, were determined. Binary PM6:Y6 devices achieved a power conversion efficiency (PCE) of 5.8%, while ternary devices incorporating PCBM reached a PCE of 6.7% (champion 7.2%). The study found that coating at 100 °C maximized PCE due to reduced bimolecular recombination. An optimal active layer thickness of approximately 200 nm was identified. The ternary devices exhibited enhanced short-circuit current and fill factor compared to binary devices. Furthermore, the devices demonstrated excellent stability, retaining over 97% of their initial PCE after more than 1500 hours of storage. The work demonstrates the feasibility of slot-die coating PM6:Y6 in open air on a flexible substrate, using a green solvent without additives, paving the way for upscaling the production of OSCs.

Research Context
The primary challenge in organic solar cell (OSC) research is the "lab-to-fab gap," the discrepancy between lab-scale and industry-compatible manufacturing processes. Spin-coating, a common lab technique, is unsuitable for upscaling due to material waste. Slot-die coating, blade-coating, and spray/aerosol coating are more suitable for roll-to-roll manufacturing. Prior research has focused on high-efficiency OSCs using PM6:Y6, but there is a need to transfer PM6:Y6 devices to roll-processing on flexible substrates, using scalable fabrication techniques. This work addresses the need for scalable fabrication techniques and environmentally friendly solvents for OSCs, focusing on slot-die coating of PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether high-efficiency OSCs can be fabricated using slot-die coating of PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates, utilizing a green solvent and compatible with roll-to-roll manufacturing. The study hypothesizes that optimizing coating parameters, such as temperature and concentration, will improve device performance. The study also investigates the effect of adding PCBM to the PM6:Y6 blend, hypothesizing that it will enhance device efficiency. The study predicts that the use of a green solvent (o-xylene) will allow for environmentally friendly fabrication. The research aims to minimize the "lab-to-fab gap" by demonstrating a scalable fabrication method that achieves high PCE. The study differs from prior work by focusing on slot-die coating of PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates, a technique suitable for roll-to-roll manufacturing, and using a green solvent.

Methodological Details
The study employed an inverted geometry for the OSCs: ITO/ZnO/PM6:Y6/MoO3/Ag. The ZnO electron transport layer (ETL) and active layer (AL) were coated using a homemade roll-coater. The ZnO nanoparticle ink was coated at a substrate temperature of 75 °C with a 0.06 mL/min flow rate and a drum speed of 1.08 m/min, followed by annealing at 100 °C for 10 min in air. The AL PM6:Y6 (1:1 ratio) was coated at varying temperatures (60, 80, 100, 120 °C) and concentrations (12, 16, 20, 24, 28 mg/mL) with a drum speed of 1.5 m/min and a 0.12 mL/min flow rate. The head, syringe, drum, and tube were kept at the same temperature. The hole transport layer (HTL) of MoO3 (10 nm) and Ag (150 nm) were thermally evaporated under vacuum (2 x 10 -5 mbar) through a shadow mask. The active area of the devices was approximately 0.8 cm2. Before encapsulation, devices underwent an activation process with a reverse bias current (-5 V, 100 mA). Encapsulation used epoxy-based glue and UV light curing. Current density-voltage (J-V) curves were measured with a Keithley 2400 source meter and a solar simulator (1000 W/m2, AM1.5G). The aperture area was 0.3996 cm2. External Quantum Efficiency (EQE) and absorbance measurements were performed using a QEX10 system. Thickness measurements were done with a DS95-50 AFM instrument. The study utilized a factorial design to optimize coating parameters. Statistical analyses were performed on the data, and the average values were calculated from eight devices.

Procedures Architectures
The OSCs were fabricated using an inverted architecture: ITO/ZnO/PM6:Y6/MoO3/Ag. The ZnO ETL was coated using a homemade roll-coater, with the flow rate controlled by a syringe pump. The AL was slot-die coated, with the temperature of the head, syringe, drum, and tube controlled to maintain the solution's temperature. The AL was prepared using PM6 and Y6 materials, with a 1:1 ratio. The study also investigated ternary devices by adding PCBM to the blend. The MoO3 HTL and Ag electrode were deposited via thermal evaporation. The roll-coater setup allowed for control over drum speed, head-to-drum distance, and temperature. The slot-die head was heated to maintain the solution's temperature during coating. The active layer thickness was controlled by varying the concentration of the PM6:Y6 solution. The devices were characterized using J-V measurements, EQE, and AFM. The software used for data acquisition and analysis is not specified. The novelty lies in the use of slot-die coating for PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates, using a green solvent, and the investigation of ternary devices with PCBM.

Key Results
The study found that the optimal coating temperature for the PM6:Y6 active layer was 100 °C, yielding an average PCE of 5.8% for binary devices. Coating at 120 °C resulted in a lower average fill factor (42.2%) compared to 100 °C (47.1%). The short-circuit current was higher at higher coating temperatures. The study also found that the optimal active layer thickness was around 200 nm, with the highest average PCE of 5.8% achieved at 217 nm thickness. Ternary devices with PCBM achieved a higher average PCE of 6.7% (champion 7.2%), with a 12% higher JSC compared to binary devices. The ternary devices exhibited enhanced dissociation probability (96.3% and 95.7%) compared to binary devices (93.7%). The binary devices retained more than 97% of their initial PCE after more than 1500 hours of storage. The ternary devices retained 99.4% of the initial value after 1050 hours. The slope value closest to unity for the solar cells with 217 nm of AL thickness was 0.987.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that slot-die coating is a viable method for fabricating efficient OSCs using PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates. The optimal coating temperature of 100 °C maximizes PCE by reducing bimolecular recombination. The improved performance of ternary devices indicates that PCBM enhances charge transport and exciton dissociation. The high stability of the devices suggests that the fabrication process and materials are suitable for long-term operation. The results support the idea that the morphology of the active layer is crucial for device performance, as the coating temperature and thickness affect the packing of the donor and acceptor materials. The study implies that the use of a green solvent and roll-to-roll compatible techniques can contribute to the industrialization of OSCs. The results confirm that a better charge extraction can be achieved with a small acceptor fullerene amount in OSCs on flexible substrates.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not report the specific random seed used for the experiments. The study does not specify the exact composition of the epoxy-based glue used for encapsulation. The study does not mention the specific type of flexible substrate used. The study does not provide information on the environmental conditions during the slot-die coating process. The study does not provide information on the specific software used for data acquisition and analysis. The study acknowledges that the devices were not prepared in a cleanroom or inside a glovebox, which may contribute to trap-assisted recombination. The study does not provide detailed information about the roll-coater setup. The study does not report the standard deviation for the champion efficiency of 7.2%. The study does not report the exact demographics of the sample.

Claims
[{"description": "Slot-die coating of PM6:Y6 active layers on flexible substrates, using a green solvent, can achieve a power conversion efficiency of up to 6.3% for binary devices.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports a PCE of 5.8% (average) for binary PM6:Y6 devices fabricated using slot-die coating on flexible substrates. The champion efficiency was not reported for the binary devices. The devices were fabricated using o-xylene as a green solvent.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the feasibility of using slot-die coating for fabricating efficient OSCs on flexible substrates, which is a key step towards roll-to-roll manufacturing."}, {"description": "The addition of PCBM to the PM6:Y6 blend in a ternary device improves the power conversion efficiency, with a champion efficiency of 7.2%.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports an average PCE of 6.7% for ternary devices incorporating PCBM, with a champion efficiency of 7.2%. The ternary devices exhibited enhanced short-circuit current.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the addition of PCBM enhances charge transport and exciton dissociation, leading to improved device performance."}, {"description": "Coating the active layer at 100 °C maximizes the power conversion efficiency of the devices.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found that the average PCE was maximized at a coating temperature of 100 °C, due to reduced bimolecular recombination. The average fill factor was 47.1% at 100 °C.", "contradicting_evidence": "Coating at 120 °C resulted in a lower average fill factor (42.2%).", "implications": "This highlights the importance of optimizing the coating temperature to achieve optimal device performance."}, {"description": "The optimal active layer thickness for the PM6:Y6 devices is approximately 200 nm.", "supporting_evidence": "The highest average PCE of 5.8% was achieved at an active layer thickness of 217 nm. The study found that the solar cell with 217 nm of AL thickness has the lower charge-transport limited behavior, due to lower bimolecular recombination with the slope value closest to 1 in this optimization study (S = 0.987).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This provides guidance for optimizing the active layer thickness to achieve high-efficiency devices."}, {"description": "The fabricated OSCs exhibit high stability under dark storage conditions.", "supporting_evidence": "Binary devices retained more than 97% of their initial PCE after more than 1500 hours of storage. Ternary devices retained 99.4% of the initial value after 1050 hours.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the fabrication process and materials are suitable for long-term operation."}]

Data Code Availability
The study does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study performed a temperature optimization, varying the coating temperature from 60 to 120 °C. The study also investigated the effect of the active layer thickness. The study also investigates the effect of adding PCBM to the PM6:Y6 blend.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not mention any specific ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows the J-V curves and EQEs of devices coated at different temperatures, demonstrating the effect of coating temperature on device performance. Figure 3 shows box plots of PCE and FF evolution with temperature. Table 1 presents the PV parameters extracted from the J-V curves of PM6:Y6 devices fabricated at different temperatures. Figure 5 shows box plots of the PV parameters for different AL thicknesses. Figure 6 shows the J-V curves and EQEs of binary and ternary devices. Figure 8 shows the stability of the devices. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the impact of the different parameters on the performance of the devices.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the demonstration of high-efficiency organic solar cells fabricated using slot-die coating of PM6:Y6 on flexible substrates, utilizing a green solvent, which is a key step towards roll-to-roll manufacturing. (2) The strongest evidence is the achievement of a 7.2% champion PCE for ternary devices and the high stability of the devices, retaining over 97% of their initial PCE after long-term storage. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of detailed information about the roll-coater setup and the environmental conditions during the coating process, which could affect the reproducibility of the results. Future work should focus on optimizing the roll-coater setup and investigating the impact of environmental factors on device performance.