Executive Summary
This paper critiques a study claiming successful refolding of the yeast mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3 using the detergent dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) for solution NMR studies. The authors of this critique demonstrate that DPC leads to the loss of tertiary structure and functional inactivation of AAC3. They challenge the reported binding affinity of carboxyatractyloside (CATR) to DPC-refolded AAC3, which was measured using isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) and NMR, finding it to be significantly lower than the nanomolar range observed for native AAC3. Thermostability assays showed that AAC3 in DPC is in a non-native state, and reconstitution experiments confirmed the loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes when AAC3 was diluted in DPC. The authors' results contradict the claim that AAC3 maintains a folded and active state in DPC, questioning the biological relevance of the previous study's findings. The study highlights the importance of using appropriate detergents and functional assays to validate protein integrity, particularly for structural and functional studies. The main limitation is that the study focuses on a specific protein and detergent, and the findings may not be generalizable to other proteins or detergents. The study's findings are significant because they challenge the validity of previous research and highlight the importance of rigorous experimental validation.

Research Context
The study addresses the use of dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) in refolding and studying the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3. Previous work claimed successful refolding and maintenance of AAC3's activity in DPC for NMR and ITC experiments. However, the authors point out that the native form of AAC3 is found in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The authors' work addresses the gap in understanding the effects of DPC on AAC3's structure and function. Prior studies have used various detergents, such as dodecyl-maltoside, for AAC3 purification and structural studies. This work contrasts with those studies by demonstrating the detrimental effects of DPC. The authors' work aims to clarify the discrepancies in the reported binding affinities of CATR to AAC3 in DPC and in its native state.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3 maintains its native structure and function when refolded and studied in dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC). The authors hypothesize that DPC disrupts the tertiary structure and inactivates AAC3, leading to altered binding affinities and loss of function. This hypothesis is tested by comparing the binding affinity of CATR to AAC3 in DPC with that in its native state, using ITC and NMR. The authors predict that the binding affinity of CATR to AAC3 in DPC will be significantly lower than the nanomolar range observed for native AAC3. Furthermore, the authors predict that AAC3 in DPC will exhibit a loss of thermal stability and a loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes. The alternative hypothesis is that AAC3 maintains its native structure and function in DPC, as claimed in the previous study. This study differs from the previous work by using functional assays and thermostability analysis to validate the integrity of the refolded protein, rather than relying solely on ITC and NMR data. The study's outcomes are expected to either support the authors' hypothesis, refuting the previous study's claims, or provide a more nuanced understanding of DPC's effects on AAC3.

Methodological Details
The study investigates the impact of dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) on the structure and function of the yeast mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3. The study design involves comparing the binding affinity of carboxyatractyloside (CATR) to AAC3 in DPC with that in its native state, using isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) and NMR. Thermostability assays and reconstitution experiments are also performed. The sample consists of purified AAC3 protein from yeast mitochondria. The materials used include CATR, dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC), dodecyl-maltoside, and L-α-phosphatidylcholine and tetraoleoyl cardiolipin for reconstitution. The data used include binding affinities measured by ITC and NMR, thermostability data, and ADP uptake assays. The procedure involves the following steps: (1) ITC measurements: The enthalpy changes associated with carboxyatractyloside binding to purified AAC3 were recorded with a NanoITC-LV isothermal titration calorimeter at 10 °C. CATR was titrated into purified AAC3, and isotherms were analyzed using the instrument software. (2) Thermostability analysis: Thermostability data were obtained using the thiol-reactive fluorophore N-[4-(7-diethylamino-4-methyl-3-coumarinyl)phenyl] maleimide (CPM). Fluorescence of the CPM dye was measured on a Qiagen Rotorgene Q using the HRM channel. (3) Reconstitution: L-α-phosphatidylcholine and tetraoleoyl cardiolipin were mixed in a 20:1 ratio and dried. The lipid was emulsified and solubilized with pentaethylene glycol monodecyl detergent before the addition of purified AAC3 protein. The detergent was stepwise removed, and the resulting proteoliposome suspension was used for ADP uptake assays. (4) ADP uptake assays: Uptake assays were carried out using a Hamilton MicroLab Star robot. The transport was stopped at various time points, and the uptake of radiolabeled ADP was measured. The analysis involves fitting the ITC data to a one-site binding model. The melting temperatures were determined with the software supplied with the instrument. The study does not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The ethical considerations are not mentioned.

Procedures Architectures
The study employs several experimental procedures to assess the integrity of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3 in the presence of dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC). Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) was used to measure the binding affinity of carboxyatractyloside (CATR) to AAC3. The NanoITC-LV isothermal titration calorimeter was used at 10 °C. CATR was titrated into purified AAC3, and the resulting isotherms were analyzed using the instrument software to determine the dissociation constant (Kd), enthalpy change (ΔH), and stoichiometry. Thermostability analysis was performed using a modified procedure with a rotary qPCR machine. The thiol-reactive fluorophore N-[4-(7-diethylamino-4-methyl-3-coumarinyl)phenyl] maleimide (CPM) was used to monitor protein unfolding. Fluorescence was measured on a Qiagen Rotorgene Q using the HRM channel. Measurements were made in 1 °C intervals from 25 to 90 °C. Reconstitution experiments were conducted to assess the functional activity of AAC3 in liposomes. L-α-phosphatidylcholine and tetraoleoyl cardiolipin were mixed and dried. The lipid was solubilized with pentaethylene glycol monodecyl detergent before the addition of purified AAC3 protein. The detergent was stepwise removed to form proteoliposomes. ADP uptake assays were performed using a Hamilton MicroLab Star robot. The proteoliposome suspension was added to a filter plate, and the uptake of radiolabeled ADP was measured over time. The study also describes the purification of AAC3 from yeast mitochondria, including the use of Ni-Sepharose high-performance column and Factor Xa cleavage. The study's novelty lies in its comprehensive approach to assessing the effects of DPC on AAC3, combining multiple techniques to evaluate both structural and functional aspects. The study uses established methods, such as ITC, thermostability assays, and reconstitution, but applies them to challenge the findings of a previous study.

Key Results
The study's key results demonstrate the detrimental effects of dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) on the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3. The authors report an average Kd of 72 nM for CATR binding to native AAC3 purified in dodecyl-maltoside/tetraoleoyl cardiolipin (Figure 1b). In contrast, the authors challenge a previous study that reported a Kd of ~15 µM for CATR binding to DPC-refolded AAC3, as measured by ITC, and ~150 µM by NMR. The authors' ITC measurements using native AAC3 from yeast mitochondria purified in dodecyl-maltoside/tetraoleoyl cardiolipin gave an average Kd of 72 nM, which is 200 to 2000-fold lower than those reported in the previous study. Thermostability assays showed that AAC3 in DPC is in a non-native state, with no transition observed in the presence of DPC (Figure 1d). In contrast, AAC3 in dodecyl-maltoside displayed a typical protein melt curve, with a marked shift in stability to higher temperatures upon CATR addition (Figure 1c). Dilution of AAC3 into DPC before reconstitution resulted in a complete loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes, in contrast to control tests where the protein was diluted into dodecyl-maltoside prior to reconstitution (Supplementary Fig. 2). These observations clearly demonstrate that AAC3 is soluble but in a non-native state in DPC. The authors also note that the Kd of ADP binding determined by NMR (500 μM) is ~85-fold higher than the published consensus values of the carrier in the mitochondrial membrane and ~25-fold higher than for the solubilized carrier (Supplementary Table 2).

Interpretation Implications
The findings indicate that dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) disrupts the native structure and function of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3. The significantly lower binding affinity of CATR to AAC3 in DPC, as compared to native AAC3, suggests that the protein is misfolded or denatured in DPC. The loss of thermal stability and the absence of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes further support this conclusion. The study's findings challenge the previous claim that AAC3 maintains a folded and active state in DPC, which has implications for the interpretation of previous NMR and ITC studies. The results suggest that the data presented by Brüschweiler et al. have no biological relevance. The study highlights the importance of using appropriate detergents and functional assays to validate protein integrity, particularly for structural and functional studies. The results imply that the use of DPC may lead to misleading results in studies of AAC3 and potentially other membrane proteins. The findings emphasize the need for caution when using DPC and the importance of validating protein structure and function with multiple methods.

Contradictions Limitations
The study contradicts the findings of a previous study that claimed successful refolding and maintenance of AAC3's activity in DPC. The primary limitation is that the study focuses on a specific protein (AAC3) and a specific detergent (DPC), and the findings may not be generalizable to other proteins or detergents. The study's conclusions are based on a limited set of experimental techniques, including ITC, thermostability assays, and reconstitution experiments. The study does not provide details on the specific strains of yeast used for AAC3 purification. The study does not mention the random seed used in the experiments. The study does not provide information on the statistical power of the experiments. The study does not address the potential impact of other factors, such as temperature or pH, on the stability and function of AAC3 in DPC. The study does not provide a detailed error analysis. The study does not address the potential for DPC to interact with other cellular components. The study does not provide information on the purity of the AAC3 protein used in the experiments.

Claims
[{"description": "Dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC) disrupts the native structure of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3, leading to a loss of function.", "supporting_evidence": "The Kd for CATR binding to AAC3 in DPC was significantly higher than that for native AAC3 (Figure 1b). AAC3 in DPC showed no transition in thermostability assays (Figure 1d), and a loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes was observed.", "contradicting_evidence": "The previous study claimed that AAC3 maintains a folded and active state in DPC.", "implications": "The use of DPC in studies of AAC3 may lead to misleading results, and the findings of previous studies using DPC should be re-evaluated."}, {"description": "The binding affinity of carboxyatractyloside (CATR) to AAC3 is significantly reduced in the presence of DPC compared to native AAC3.", "supporting_evidence": "The authors report an average Kd of 72 nM for CATR binding to native AAC3, while the previous study reported a Kd of ~15 µM by ITC and ~150 µM by NMR for DPC-refolded AAC3.", "contradicting_evidence": "The previous study reported a high affinity of CATR to DPC-refolded AAC3.", "implications": "The altered binding affinity suggests that AAC3 is misfolded or denatured in DPC, which compromises its ability to bind its ligand."}, {"description": "AAC3 in DPC exhibits a loss of thermal stability.", "supporting_evidence": "Thermostability assays showed that AAC3 in DPC is in a non-native state, with no transition observed (Figure 1d).", "contradicting_evidence": "The previous study did not report on the thermostability of AAC3 in DPC.", "implications": "The loss of thermal stability indicates that the protein is unfolded and unable to maintain its native conformation in DPC."}, {"description": "AAC3 loses its ability to transport ADP when reconstituted in liposomes after being diluted in DPC.", "supporting_evidence": "Dilution of AAC3 into DPC before reconstitution resulted in a complete loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes (Supplementary Fig. 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "The previous study did not report on the ADP uptake activity of AAC3 in liposomes after being diluted in DPC.", "implications": "The loss of ADP uptake indicates that AAC3 is functionally inactive in DPC."}]

Data Code Availability
The study does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study does not include any ablation studies or sensitivity analyses.

Ethical Considerations
The study does not mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 is critical, showing the thermostability of AAC3 in dodecyl-maltoside and DPC, as well as the Kd of CATR binding to native AAC3. The x-axis of the thermostability graphs shows temperature, while the y-axis shows fluorescence. The figure substantiates the claim that AAC3 is in a non-native state in DPC. Figure 1b shows the Kd of CATR binding to native AAC3 using ITC. Supplementary Figure 2 shows the results of ADP uptake assays, comparing the uptake of ADP in liposomes after AAC3 was diluted in either dodecyl-maltoside or DPC.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the demonstration that dodecyl-phosphocholine (DPC), a detergent used in previous studies, disrupts the native structure and function of the mitochondrial ADP/ATP carrier AAC3, contradicting previous claims of successful refolding and activity maintenance. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the significantly lower binding affinity of carboxyatractyloside (CATR) to AAC3 in DPC, the loss of thermal stability, and the loss of CATR-sensitive ADP uptake in liposomes, all of which support the conclusion that AAC3 is misfolded and inactive in DPC. (3) The primary limitation is the focus on a single protein and detergent, and the open problem is whether these findings can be generalized to other membrane proteins and detergents. Future work could investigate the effects of other detergents on AAC3 and other membrane proteins to determine the optimal conditions for structural and functional studies.