Executive Summary
This study investigates the relationship between Article Processing Charges (APC) of open-access natural science journals and metrics such as Impact Factor (IF), Eigen Factor (EF), and citability, as well as the country of the publisher. The research was motivated by the observation that while Open Access (OA) journals increase research accessibility, the associated publication fees can be a barrier for many researchers. The study analyzed metadata from 237 open-access natural science journals. The key findings indicate that IF, EF, and citability increase with APC. Additionally, journals from developed countries tend to have higher APC, IF, EF, and citability compared to those from developing countries. The mean APC was $1344.27 USD, mean IF was 2.855, mean EF was 0.017, and mean total citation count was 5925.92. The study found significant positive correlations between APC and IF (r = 0.391, p < .001), APC and EF (r = 0.303, p < .001), and APC and citability (r = 0.323, p < .001). These findings suggest that the current open-access model may exacerbate inequalities within the global scientific community, potentially limiting the exposure and impact of research from developing countries. The primary limitation is the focus on natural sciences journals, which may not be generalizable to all scientific disciplines. This work highlights the need for a more inclusive open-access framework that does not disadvantage researchers based on their financial resources or institutional affiliation.

Research Context
The transition to Golden Open Access (GOA) by high-impact journals, while increasing accessibility, has introduced publication fees (APCs) that can be prohibitive for many researchers. This contrasts with the initial promise of open access, which aimed to remove barriers to scientific knowledge. Prior research has shown that researchers from developing countries often face challenges in publishing in high-impact journals due to these costs, potentially leading them to publish in lower-impact or predatory journals. This study addresses the gap by examining the relationship between APCs, journal impact metrics, and the country of the publisher. The current system, where high-impact journals are often linked to high APCs, can create a stressful and time-consuming publication process for researchers. The study builds on the understanding that high-impact journals generate exposure through increased citations, but the costs of publishing in these journals can be problematic for researchers without funding.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What is the relationship between Article Processing Charges (APC), Impact Factor (IF), Eigen Factor (EF), citability, and the country of publisher in open-access natural science journals? The study hypothesized that higher APCs would be associated with higher IF, EF, and citability. It also hypothesized that journals from developed countries would have higher APCs, IFs, EFs, and citability compared to those from developing countries. The alternative hypothesis is that there would be no significant correlation between APC and the impact metrics, or that the country of the publisher would not significantly influence these metrics. This study differs from previous work by focusing on the natural sciences and analyzing a large dataset of open-access journals to investigate these relationships. The outcomes supporting the hypotheses would be a positive correlation between APC and the impact metrics, and significant differences in metrics based on the publisher's country. Refutation would involve finding no significant correlations or differences. The study aims to provide evidence on how the current GOA framework impacts the global scientific community and to identify potential inequalities in research output.

Methodological Details
The study employed a quantitative approach, analyzing metadata from open-access natural science journals. The data source was the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ), from which journal name, APC, country of publisher, and currency records were obtained (n = 14275). All currency values were converted to USD using the quantmod package in R. A subset of journals (n = 1047) related to the biological sciences was selected using keyword searches (e.g., ecology, conservation). Journals with an IF >40 were excluded. The final analysis was performed on a dataset of 237 open-access, natural science journals. The study examined the relationship between APC and citability (total citations), IF, and EF. Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to analyze the correlation between APC, IF, EF, and citability. The country of the publisher was also examined to identify any trends between country and APC, IF, EF, and citability. The R statistical software was used for all data analyses. Packages used included: scholar package (Keirstead, 2016) for generating impact factors; quantmod package (Ryan et al. 2019) for currency conversion; dplyr package (Wickham et al. 2015) and reshape2 package (Wickham, 2012) for data cleaning and selection; and ggplot2 package (Wickham et al. 2016) for data visualizations. The study did not specify any pre-registration or multiple-comparison corrections. Ethical considerations were not explicitly addressed in the provided text.

Procedures Architectures
The study did not involve the construction of any models or systems. The methodology relied on the collection and analysis of metadata from open-access journals. The core procedure involved the following steps: (1) Data acquisition: Journal metadata (name, APC, country, currency) were obtained from the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ). (2) Data cleaning: Keywords were used to select journals related to the biological sciences. Journals with IF > 40 were excluded. Currency conversion was performed to standardize APC values to USD. (3) Data analysis: Pearson's correlation coefficient was used to analyze the relationship between APC, IF, EF, and citability. The country of the publisher was also analyzed in relation to these metrics. (4) Data visualization: The ggplot2 package was used to create data visualizations. The study used the R statistical software environment, with specific packages for data manipulation, impact factor generation, currency conversion, and data visualization. The study does not mention any novel procedures or architectures. The primary focus was on the statistical analysis of existing metadata.

Key Results
The study found a significant positive correlation between APC and IF (Pearson correlation: r(237) = 0.391, p < .001). There was also a highly significant positive correlation between APC and EF (Pearson correlation: r(237) = 0.303, p < .001). Furthermore, a highly significant positive correlation was found between APC and citability (Pearson correlation: r(237) = 0.323, p < .001). The mean APC of the analyzed journals (n = 237) was $1344.27 USD. The mean IF was 2.855, the mean EF was 0.017, and the mean total citation count was 5925.92. The study also found that journal publishers from developed countries were more likely to have higher APC, IF, EF, and citability (Figure 1). The study did not report any negative results or unexpected findings.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that higher publishing costs in open-access natural science journals are associated with higher impact, importance, and citability. The data also implies that journals from developed countries dominate in terms of APC, IF, EF, and citability. This suggests that the current GOA model may exacerbate inequalities within the global scientific community. The results support the idea that the cost of publishing can be a barrier to researchers, especially those from developing countries. The study implies a mechanism where expensive APCs in prestigious journals can limit the exposure of research from less-resourced institutions or researchers. The scope conditions are limited to open-access natural science journals. The understanding shifts towards recognizing that the GOA model, while increasing accessibility, may inadvertently create a system where prestige and cost are correlated, potentially hindering the progress of research from less-resourced regions.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is its focus on natural science journals, which may limit the generalizability of the findings to other scientific disciplines. The study does not address the potential impact of funding assistance programs for APCs, and it does not account for the quality of research published in journals with varying APCs. The study's conclusions may contradict the initial goals of open access, which aimed to make research more accessible regardless of financial constraints. The study does not provide details on the specific criteria for APC funding assistance, which could influence the results. The study does not address potential conflicts of interest. The study does not mention the random seed used for the statistical analyses. The study does not mention the demographics of the authors or the journals analyzed.

Claims
[{"description": "Higher Article Processing Charges (APCs) in open-access natural science journals are significantly correlated with higher Impact Factors (IFs).", "supporting_evidence": "The study found a significant positive correlation between APC and IF (Pearson correlation: r(237) = 0.391, p < .001).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the cost of publishing in a journal is associated with its perceived impact, potentially creating a barrier for researchers with limited funding."}, {"description": "Journals from developed countries tend to have higher APCs, Impact Factors, Eigen Factors, and citability compared to journals from developing countries.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found that journal publishers from developed countries were more likely to have higher APC, IF, EF, and citability (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights a potential inequality in the open-access publishing model, where research from developed countries may have an advantage in terms of visibility and impact."}, {"description": "Higher APCs in open-access natural science journals are significantly correlated with higher citability.", "supporting_evidence": "There was a highly significant positive correlation between APC and citability (Pearson correlation: r(237) = 0.323, p < .001).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the cost of publishing is associated with the number of citations a journal receives, further reinforcing the potential for inequality in research dissemination."}, {"description": "The mean Article Processing Charge (APC) for the analyzed open-access natural science journals was $1344.27 USD.", "supporting_evidence": "The mean APC of open-access journals analyzed (n = 237) was $1344.27 USD.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This provides a baseline cost for publishing in open-access natural science journals, highlighting the financial burden that researchers may face."}]

Data Code Availability
The study used data from the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ).

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1, which is not provided in the text, is central to the claim that journals from developed countries have higher APC, IF, EF, and citability. The figure's axes and metrics are not described in the text, but the claim is based on the visual representation of the data.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the demonstration of a positive correlation between APCs and journal impact metrics (IF, EF, citability) in open-access natural science journals, alongside the observation that journals from developed countries tend to have higher APCs and impact metrics.

(2) The strongest evidence is the statistically significant positive correlations between APC and IF (r = 0.391, p < .001), APC and EF (r = 0.303, p < .001), and APC and citability (r = 0.323, p < .001), as well as the observation that journals from developed countries had higher APC, IF, EF, and citability.

(3) The primary limitation is the focus on natural science journals, which limits the generalizability of the findings. A forward path would involve expanding the analysis to include other scientific disciplines and investigating the impact of funding assistance programs on these relationships.