Executive Summary
This study investigated the molecular changes in murine macrophage RAW 264.7 cells upon activation with CpG DNA and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) using Attenuated Total Reflectance (ATR) Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. The research aimed to monitor the global molecular changes in these cells, which are crucial components of the innate immune system. Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was employed to identify sources of variation, followed by detailed spectral analysis. The results showed that both CpG DNA and LPS treatments increased total nucleic acid concentration early after activation, with DNA synthesis following RNA synthesis. RNA-specific peaks indicated macrophage activation in the early stages. Furthermore, both treatments led to an initial rapid increase in total protein concentration, leveling off after two hours. Both activated groups also increased the concentration of fatty acids, triglycerides, and cholesterol, suggesting a shared synthesis pathway and de novo lipogenesis. The study's novelty lies in using FTIR spectroscopy to monitor the activation dynamics of murine macrophages upon CpG DNA and LPS stimulation, providing a non-destructive and high-throughput method to analyze cellular responses. The main limitation is the lack of specific mechanistic insights into the observed molecular changes. The findings are significant because they offer a new method for studying macrophage activation and provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the innate immune response, which can inform the design of immune adjuvants and therapeutic strategies.

Research Context
FTIR spectroscopy is a non-destructive method for analyzing biological systems, offering insights into molecular changes. Prior studies have applied ATR-FTIR spectroscopy to analyze live cell activation, screen diseases, and identify cellular responses to stress. Macrophages, the focus of this study, are the first line of defense in the immune system. Previous research has explored the effects of CpG DNA and LPS on macrophages, but the global molecular changes during activation have not been studied using FTIR spectroscopy. CpG DNA triggers macrophage proliferation and cytokine production, while LPS activates macrophages through the TLR4 pathway. This study addresses the gap in understanding the global molecular changes induced by CpG DNA and LPS in macrophages, using FTIR spectroscopy to provide a comprehensive view of the cellular response.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether CpG DNA and LPS-mediated immune activation leads to global molecular changes in murine macrophage cells detectable by FTIR spectroscopy. The study hypothesized that FTIR spectroscopy could reveal changes in nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids in macrophages upon activation with CpG DNA and LPS. The alternative hypothesis is that FTIR spectroscopy would not detect significant differences in the molecular composition of macrophages following activation. The study aimed to determine the kinetics of these changes by measuring the changes at different time points (10 min, 30 min, 2 h, and 6 h) after treatment. The study differs from prior work by using FTIR spectroscopy to provide a broad view of the relative amounts of nucleic acids, lipids, proteins, and other metabolites in macrophages, which are not readily accessible by other techniques. The expected outcomes supporting the hypothesis include changes in the spectral peaks corresponding to nucleic acids, proteins, and lipids, indicating alterations in their concentrations and conformations. Refutation would be indicated by the absence of significant changes in the FTIR spectra after treatment.

Methodological Details
The study used murine macrophage-like RAW 264.7 cells cultured in DMEM supplemented with 10% FBS and 2 mM L-glutamine. Cells were sub-cultured at a 1/10 ratio when reaching acceptable confluency. Cells were harvested, spun at 1000 rpm for 10 min, and resuspended at 2x10^6 cells/mL. The control group was treated with PBS, the CpG DNA-stimulated group with 1 µM K3 ODN, and the LPS-stimulated group with 0.5 µg/mL LPS. Samples were incubated at 37°C with 5% CO2 for 10 min, 30 min, 2 h, and 6 h. After incubation, samples were centrifuged, and the media was discarded. Cells were washed with 15 mL of sterile PBS and centrifuged again to remove media. ATR-FTIR spectroscopy was performed using a Perkin-Elmer Spectrum One FTIR spectrometer with an ATR unit (Diamond-ZnSe crystal). Air background and PBS spectra were subtracted. Spectra were recorded in the 4000-650 cm-1 region at 25°C. 1 µl of cell samples were dried with mild N2 flux for 5 min. A 128 scan number and 2 cm-1 spectral resolution were used. The ATR surface was cleaned with a water-ethanol-water sequence and air-dried. Each group was scanned under the same conditions in three independent scans (n=5). Post-processing included 13-point Savitzky-Golay smoothing and baseline correction. PCA was performed using the Unscrambler 11.0 software. Peak assignment was based on center of weight measurements and literature comparison. Concentration studies were carried out by integrating the curves under the peaks. Conformational alteration studies used bandwidth measurements at 75% height of the peaks. Statistical analysis included Shapiro-Wilk and Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests to determine normality.

Procedures Architectures
The study employed ATR-FTIR spectroscopy using a Perkin-Elmer Spectrum One FTIR spectrometer. The spectrometer was equipped with an ATR unit using a Diamond-ZnSe crystal. The experimental procedure involved culturing RAW 264.7 cells, treating them with PBS (control), 1 µM CpG DNA, or 0.5 µg/mL LPS. The cells were incubated at 37°C with 5% CO2 for varying time points (10 min, 30 min, 2 h, and 6 h). After incubation, the cells were washed and prepared for FTIR analysis. The FTIR spectrometer collected infrared interferograms in the 4000-650 cm-1 region. The software automatically subtracted the air background and manually subtracted the PBS spectrum. The spectra were collected with a 128 scan number and 2 cm-1 spectral resolution. The data underwent post-processing, including smoothing and baseline correction. PCA was performed using Unscrambler 11.0 software to analyze the spectral data. The study utilized the Unscrambler 11.0 software for PCA analysis, which helped reduce the dimensionality of the data and identify the sources of variation. The FTIR spectrometer and the Unscrambler software were the primary tools for data acquisition and analysis. The study's novelty lies in the application of FTIR spectroscopy to monitor the molecular changes in macrophages upon CpG DNA and LPS stimulation, providing a non-destructive and high-throughput method to analyze cellular responses.

Key Results
PCA revealed that PC-1 accounted for 83% of the variability. CpG DNA stimulation induced significant changes in nucleic acid content (1238 cm-1 peak integration) of macrophages starting from 10 min until 6 h (p < 0.1*). The RNA-specific peak (915 cm-1) significantly increased from the first minutes (p < 0.001***) and was maintained until 2 h (p < 0.1*). Total protein content significantly increased in CpG DNA-treated cells from 10 min to 2 h (p < 0.001***). Triglyceride and cholesterol concentrations increased significantly, starting from the first minutes of stimulation. Fatty acid concentration also showed a significant increase. The study found that the RNA-specific peak (915 cm-1) could define the activation state of macrophages at the very first minutes of activation. The initial increase in protein concentration was reduced, starting from the 2 h time point. LPS stimulation elevated the triglycerides and cholesterol concentration after 10 min.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that CpG DNA and LPS trigger distinct molecular changes in macrophages, detectable by FTIR spectroscopy. The early increase in RNA content indicates rapid RNA synthesis during activation, while the subsequent increase in DNA suggests DNA synthesis. The increase in protein content and lipid synthesis (triglycerides, cholesterol, and fatty acids) points to a shared metabolic pathway and de novo lipogenesis. These results support the role of CpG DNA and LPS in activating macrophages and modulating their metabolic activity. The study implies that FTIR spectroscopy can be used to study the dynamics of macrophage activation, providing insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the innate immune response. The findings suggest that the activation state of macrophages can be defined at the very first minutes of activation using the RNA-specific peak.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not provide detailed mechanistic insights into the observed molecular changes. The study does not specify the random seed used for any of the analyses. The study does not report the demographics of the cell line. The study does not provide information about the reproducibility of the results. The study acknowledges that the initial increase in protein concentration is reduced after 2 hours, but does not provide details on the mechanisms behind it. The study does not discuss any potential conflicts with prior literature. The study's external validity is limited to the specific cell line used (RAW 264.7 cells).

Claims
[{"description": "CpG DNA and LPS stimulation leads to an increase in total nucleic acid content in macrophages.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found significant changes in nucleic acid content (1238 cm-1 peak integration) starting from 10 min until 6 h after CpG DNA treatment (p < 0.1*).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the hypothesis that CpG DNA and LPS activate macrophages, leading to increased nucleic acid synthesis, likely for RNA and DNA production."}, {"description": "RNA synthesis is a prominent feature of the early stages of macrophage activation by CpG DNA.", "supporting_evidence": "The RNA-specific peak (915 cm-1) significantly increased from the first minutes (p < 0.001***) and was maintained until 2 h (p < 0.1*) after CpG DNA stimulation.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that RNA synthesis is an early event in macrophage activation, potentially related to the production of proteins involved in the immune response."}, {"description": "Both CpG DNA and LPS stimulation result in an increase in total protein content in macrophages during the early stages of activation.", "supporting_evidence": "The study showed a significant increase in total protein content in CpG DNA-treated cells from 10 min to 2 h (p < 0.001***).", "contradicting_evidence": "The initial increase in protein concentration was reduced, starting from the 2 h time point.", "implications": "This indicates that protein synthesis is upregulated during the initial stages of macrophage activation, which is consistent with the need for producing proteins involved in the immune response."}, {"description": "CpG DNA and LPS stimulation increases the concentration of triglycerides, cholesterol, and fatty acids in macrophages.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found a very significant increase in the peak corresponding to triglycerides and cholesterol starting from the very first minutes of stimulation. A significant increase was also observed in fatty acid concentration.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that lipid metabolism is modulated during macrophage activation, potentially supporting membrane remodeling, signaling, and other functions."}]

Data Code Availability
This protocol is available online [59].

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the PCA results, including the Scores Plot (A) and Loadings Plots (B and C). These plots illustrate the sources of variation and the clustering of samples based on treatment. Figure 2 shows the changes in nucleic acid content and RNA-specific peak values over time. Figure 3 shows the changes in protein content. Figure 4 shows the changes in lipid content. Table 1 shows the peak assignments and Table 2 shows the measurements of area integration regarding peaks of interest.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the application of ATR-FTIR spectroscopy to monitor the molecular changes in murine macrophages upon activation with CpG DNA and LPS, providing a new method for studying macrophage activation. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the significant increase in the RNA-specific peak (915 cm-1) from the first minutes (p < 0.001***) and maintained until 2 h (p < 0.1*) after CpG DNA stimulation, indicating rapid RNA synthesis during the early stages of activation. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of detailed mechanistic insights into the observed molecular changes, leaving open the need for further studies to elucidate the specific pathways involved in the observed molecular alterations.