Executive Summary
This paper introduces a post-preparation method to enhance photoluminescence (PL) intensity in monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs) by coating them with paraffin, a simple hydrocarbon. The study addresses the challenge of improving the optical properties of TMDCs, particularly selenium-based compounds like MoSe2 and WSe2, where existing methods have limitations. The paraffin coating induces spontaneous fluctuation and, in some cases, deformation of the TMDCs, effectively removing the substrate effect. The PL intensity showed remarkable enhancement across both sulfur- and selenium-based compounds. Specifically, MoS2 exhibited a 215-fold increase, WS2 a 55-fold increase, WSe2 a 9-fold increase, and MoSe2 a 50-fold increase in PL intensity compared to the as-exfoliated flakes. The novelty lies in the universal applicability of this method to both sulfur and selenium-based TMDCs, unlike previous techniques. This work demonstrates a universal strategy for enhancing the optical properties of monolayer TMDCs by removing the substrate effect, opening possibilities for optoelectronic applications due to paraffin's transparency, flexibility, and biocompatibility. The main limitation is that the method's effectiveness may vary depending on the specific TMDC material and its initial state.

Research Context
Monolayer TMDCs, such as MoS2, WS2, MoSe2, and WSe2, are promising for optoelectronic applications due to their direct band gap and thin structure. However, their poor PL intensity limits their application. Existing methods to improve PL intensity have limitations. For example, p-type doping and superacid treatments are effective for sulfur-based TMDCs (MoS2, WS2) but not for selenium-based TMDCs (MoSe2, WSe2). While some methods exist for MoSe2, a universal strategy for all TMDCs is lacking. This study addresses the need for a universally applicable method to enhance PL intensity in various TMDCs by removing the substrate effect.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether coating monolayer TMDCs with paraffin can enhance their PL intensity. The primary hypothesis is that paraffin coating will induce spontaneous fluctuation and deformation, removing the substrate effect and leading to a significant increase in PL intensity across various TMDCs (MoS2, WS2, MoSe2, and WSe2). The alternative hypothesis is that paraffin coating will not significantly enhance PL intensity or that the enhancement will be limited to specific TMDCs. The study's design allows for the testing of this hypothesis by measuring the PL intensity of TMDCs before and after paraffin coating. The expected outcomes supporting the hypothesis include a substantial increase in PL intensity, changes in the PL spectra (e.g., decrease in trion-derived PL signal), and shifts in Raman spectra indicating strain and changes in carrier concentration. This approach differs from previous methods by offering a universal strategy applicable to both sulfur and selenium-based TMDCs, unlike previous methods that were specific to certain materials.

Methodological Details
The study employed an empirical approach to investigate the effect of paraffin coating on the PL intensity of monolayer TMDCs. The sample preparation involved the exfoliation of monolayer TMDCs (MoS2, WS2, MoSe2, and WSe2) onto Si/SiO2 or quartz substrates. Paraffin, with a melting point of 42-45 °C, was melted on a hot plate at 80 °C and then applied to the samples using a spin coater. A heat blower (hair dryer) was used during spin coating to maintain the paraffin in a melted state. PL spectra were measured before and after paraffin coating using a spectrometer. Optical microscopy was used to observe the morphology of the TMDCs before and after paraffin coating. PL mapping was performed to assess the uniformity of PL enhancement across the monolayer. Raman spectroscopy was used to analyze the strain and carrier concentration in the TMDCs before and after paraffin coating. The Raman spectra were analyzed for the E' and A' peak positions. The study did not specify the exact spin coating parameters or the specific wavelengths used for PL and Raman measurements. The sample size for Raman analysis was 30 samples of monolayer MoS2. The study did not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. Ethical considerations were not explicitly stated.

Procedures Architectures
The core procedure involved coating monolayer TMDCs with paraffin. The paraffin was melted and applied to the TMDC samples using a spin coater, followed by observation of the samples under an optical microscope and measurement of their PL and Raman spectra. The paraffin coating process was applied to monolayer WS2, MoS2, WSe2, and MoSe2. The architecture of the experiment involved the use of a spin coater, a hot plate, a heat blower, an optical microscope, a spectrometer for PL measurements, and a Raman spectrometer. The key component of the method is the application of paraffin, which induces strain and, in some cases, deformation in the TMDCs. The paraffin coating process is new and is designed to remove the substrate effect, which is a major factor in enhancing PL intensity. The study also examined the effect of the paraffin coating on the Raman spectra of the TMDCs. The PL mapping images show the nonuniformity of PL enhancement in the monolayer plane, which is dependent on the state of the fluctuation. In an extreme case, the deformation bends the monolayer into the shape of a bundle. This deformation happens gradually and spontaneously.

Key Results
The application of paraffin coating resulted in significant PL enhancement across all tested TMDCs. MoS2 showed a 215-fold increase in PL intensity, WS2 a 55-fold increase, WSe2 a 9-fold increase, and MoSe2 a 50-fold increase compared to the as-exfoliated flakes. The normalized PL spectrum of WS2 showed a decrease in the shoulder at the low-energy side, suggesting a decrease in the ratio of trion-derived PL signal. Optical microscopy images showed that paraffin covered the entire monolayer WS2. The E' peak in the Raman spectra of MoS2 shifted in the negative direction by approximately -0.72 cm-1 on average after paraffin coating, indicating strain. The A' peak shifted in the positive direction by 1.03 cm-1, indicating a decrease in carrier concentration. PL mapping revealed nonuniform high PL intensity around the center of a monolayer surrounded by bulk flakes; the intensity was about 2.3 times greater in the center than at the rim. The PL peak position around the center shifted slightly (5-10 meV) lower in energy than the rim of the monolayer.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that paraffin coating is a universal method for enhancing PL intensity in monolayer TMDCs by removing the substrate effect. The mechanism involves the penetration of paraffin between the TMDC and the substrate, leading to strain and deformation. This deformation can result in the desorption of the monolayer from the substrate. The strain induced by the paraffin's thermal expansion coefficient and the subsequent desorption of the monolayer TMDC flakes from the substrate are the primary factors contributing to PL enhancement. The results imply that the substrate effect significantly influences the optical properties of TMDCs. The study extends the design of applying TMDCs as optoelectronics material due to the transparency, flexibility, and biocompatibility of the paraffin.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the lack of detailed information on the experimental parameters, such as the specific spin coating parameters, the wavelengths used for PL and Raman measurements, and the specific TMDC samples used. The study does not address the long-term stability of the paraffin coating or the potential impact of the coating on device performance. The study focuses on PL enhancement and does not explore other optical properties or potential applications. The study does not mention the random seed used for the experiments. The results may vary depending on the initial state of the TMDC samples and the specific paraffin used. The study does not provide information on the reproducibility of the paraffin coating process. The study does not provide information on the potential environmental impact of using paraffin.

Claims
[{"description": "Coating monolayer TMDCs with paraffin enhances their photoluminescence (PL) intensity.", "supporting_evidence": "MoS2 showed a 215-fold increase, WS2 a 55-fold increase, WSe2 a 9-fold increase, and MoSe2 a 50-fold increase in PL intensity after paraffin coating (Figure 2b).", "contradicting_evidence": "None.", "implications": "This demonstrates a universal method for improving the optical properties of TMDCs, regardless of the TMDC material."}, {"description": "The enhancement in PL intensity is attributed to the removal of the substrate effect.", "supporting_evidence": "The E' peak in the Raman spectra shifted in the negative direction, indicating strain, and the A' peak shifted in the positive direction, indicating a decrease in carrier concentration after paraffin coating (Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "None.", "implications": "This suggests that the substrate influences the electronic properties of TMDCs and that removing this influence improves PL."}, {"description": "The paraffin coating induces strain and deformation in the TMDCs.", "supporting_evidence": "The E' peak in the Raman spectra of MoS2 shifted by -0.72 cm-1 after paraffin coating (Table 2). Optical microscopy images show that the monolayer MoS2 deformed spontaneously with time (Figures 3a-d).", "contradicting_evidence": "None.", "implications": "The strain and deformation are key factors in enhancing PL intensity."}, {"description": "The PL enhancement is nonuniform across the monolayer plane.", "supporting_evidence": "PL mapping images revealed nonuniform high PL intensity around the center of a monolayer surrounded by bulk flakes; the intensity was about 2.3 times greater in the center than at the rim (Figure 5a).", "contradicting_evidence": "None.", "implications": "This suggests that the degree of PL enhancement is dependent on the state of the fluctuation and the local strain within the monolayer."}]

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2b is critical as it presents the factors of enhancement for each original monolayer flake, providing the quantitative evidence for the main claim of PL enhancement. Table 2 presents the statistical information of Raman shifts of the E' and A' peak positions in 30 samples of monolayer MoS2 before and after paraffin coating, which supports the claim that the paraffin coating induces strain and changes carrier concentration. Figure 3 shows the optical microscope images for the as-exfoliated monolayer MoS2 and the monolayer MoS2 immediately after paraffin coating, which provides visual evidence of the deformation process.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is a universal post-preparation method for enhancing PL intensity in monolayer TMDCs by coating them with paraffin, applicable to both sulfur- and selenium-based compounds.

(2) The strongest evidence is the significant increase in PL intensity observed across all tested TMDCs: MoS2 (215-fold), WS2 (55-fold), WSe2 (9-fold), and MoSe2 (50-fold), as shown in Figure 2b.

(3) The primary limitation is the lack of detailed experimental parameters and the absence of information on long-term stability and potential device applications. Future work could focus on optimizing the coating process, investigating the long-term stability of the enhanced PL, and exploring the application of this method in optoelectronic devices.