Executive Summary
This study investigated the role of Cellular Communication Network factor 2 (CCN2, also known as CTGF) in lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) and its effects on lymphangiogenesis. The authors found that CCN2 upregulated the expression of lymphatic endothelial markers (Lyve1, Podoplanin, Prox1) and lymphangiogenic factors (Vegfc, Vegfd, Flt4) in primary cultured LECs. CCN2 induced phospho-ERK, which was decreased by suppression of integrin av. CCN2 slightly decreased LEC growth due to enhanced interaction between ERK and DUSP6, and knockdown of DUSP6 increased CCN2-induced phospho-ERK levels. In in vivo Matrigel plug assays, CCN2 increased the number of Podoplanin-positive vessels. The study's main findings are: (1) CCN2 upregulates lymphangiogenic factors in LECs; (2) CCN2 activates ERK signaling via integrin av; (3) CCN2 promotes the binding of ERK and DUSP6, which negatively modulates ERK signaling. The novelty lies in elucidating the signaling pathways of CCN2 in LECs, specifically the role of DUSP6 in regulating ERK signaling. These findings are significant because they provide insights into the mechanisms of lymphangiogenesis and may identify potential therapeutic targets for diseases involving lymphatic dysfunction, such as oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). A limitation is that the study primarily focuses on in vitro experiments and a Matrigel plug assay, which may not fully represent the complex in vivo environment.

Research Context
CCN2 is a well-known angiogenic factor, but its role in lymphangiogenesis and intracellular signaling in LECs was unclear. Prior research has shown that CCN2 is involved in both physiologic and pathologic angiogenesis and is associated with lymphangiogenesis in fibrosis-related diseases. However, the specific signaling pathways of CCN2 in LECs had not been extensively studied. Prior studies have shown that CCN2 activates MAPKs, such as ERK, in other cell types. Integrins, cell surface adhesion receptors, are known to interact with CCN2 and activate intracellular signaling pathways. The VEGF-C-VEGFR-3 signaling pathway is crucial for lymphatic vessel development. This work addresses the gap in understanding how CCN2 influences lymphangiogenesis through its signaling pathways in LECs.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: What are the downstream signaling pathways of CCN2 in primary cultured LECs, and how does CCN2 affect lymphangiogenesis? The study hypothesized that CCN2 would upregulate lymphangiogenic factors in LECs, activate ERK signaling, and influence cell growth. The authors predicted that CCN2 would induce the phosphorylation of ERK, and that this effect would be mediated by integrins. They further hypothesized that CCN2 would affect LEC growth and that DUSP6 would play a role in regulating ERK signaling. Support for the hypotheses would include increased expression of lymphangiogenic factors, increased phospho-ERK levels, and changes in LEC growth in response to CCN2 treatment. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the specific signaling pathways of CCN2 in LECs, rather than in other cell types or in the context of fibrosis-related lymphangiogenesis. The authors also investigated the role of DUSP6 in regulating ERK signaling in LECs, which had not been previously explored.

Methodological Details
The study used a combination of in vitro and in vivo experiments to investigate the effects of CCN2 on LECs. Primary cultured LECs were obtained from C57BL/6 mice (CellBiologics). Cells up to 6 passages were used for in vitro experiments. Cell proliferation was assessed by crystal violet staining. LECs were treated with varying concentrations of recombinant rat CCN2/CTGF protein (0, 12.5, 25, 50, 100, or 200 ng/mL) for 3 hours to analyze the expression of LEC markers and lymphangiogenic factors. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using the Purelink RNA purification Kit (Invitrogen) and the QuantiTect RT Kit (Qiagen). Gene silencing was performed using siRNA designed by siDirect ver.2. LECs were transfected with 25 pmol of target siRNA or nontarget siRNA (MISSION siRNA universal control#1, Merck) using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX (Thermo Fisher). Western blot analysis was performed using standard protocols. Phospho-receptor tyrosine kinase array was performed using a Proteome profiler mouse phospho-RTK array kit (R&D Systems). Immunoprecipitation assays were conducted to investigate protein interactions. In vivo experiments used a Matrigel plug assay. Male 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice (Charles River Japan) were used. Mice were subcutaneously injected with a mixture of growth factor reduced Matrigel (Corning) and recombinant rat CCN2/CTGF (8.33 µg) or PBS as a control. At day 7, Matrigel plugs were removed, fixed, and embedded for histological analysis. Statistical analysis was performed using GraphPad Prism software version 8. Comparative analysis was performed by Student's t-test, one-way and repeated measures ANOVA, or two-way ANOVA. For multiple comparisons, Bonferroni or Sidak analysis was used. Statistical significance was set at p < 0.05. The study was approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Fukuoka University (approval number: 2008024).

Procedures Architectures
The study employed several experimental procedures. Primary LECs were cultured in EGM2-Endothelial cell growth medium-2 bullet kit (Lonza). Cell proliferation was assessed by crystal violet staining, measuring absorbance at 590 nm using a SPARK 10M plate reader (TECAN). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed using TB Green Premix ExTaq II (Takarabio) and a LightCycler96 (Roche). siRNA-mediated gene silencing was conducted using Lipofectamine RNAiMAX (Thermo Fisher). Western blot analysis utilized standard SDS-PAGE and PVDF membranes (Invitrogen), with protein detection using ECL Prime (GE Healthcare) and an image analyzer 680 (GE Healthcare). A phospho-receptor tyrosine kinase array (R&D Systems) was used to analyze RTK phosphorylation. Immunoprecipitation assays involved cell lysis, incubation with antibodies, and protein A magnetic beads (New England Biolabs). The in vivo Matrigel plug assay involved subcutaneous injection of a Matrigel mixture with or without CCN2 into mice. Histological analysis was performed using hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining and immunohistochemistry with fluorescence and confocal microscopy (BZ-710X; Keyence and LSM710; Carl Zeiss). The study used recombinant rat CCN2/CTGF protein (R&D Systems) for stimulation experiments. The siRNA sequences used for gene silencing are listed in Table S2, and the primary antibodies used for Western blotting and immunohistochemistry are listed in Table S3. The study used the EGM2-Endothelial cell growth medium-2 bullet kit (Lonza) for cell culture. The software used for statistical analysis was GraphPad Prism version 8.

Key Results
CCN2 increased the expression of LEC markers Lyve1, Pdpn, and Prox1 in a dose-dependent manner up to 100 ng/mL (Figure 1A). CCN2 also increased the expression of lymphangiogenic factors Vegfc, Vegfd, and Flt4 (Figure 1B). Phospho-ERK was significantly increased in response to CCN2 (p < 0.001) (Figure 2A, 2B). Knockdown of integrin av by siRNA partially decreased phospho-ERK induced by CCN2 (p = 0.0040) (Figure 3B). Treatment with 50 and 100 ng/mL of CCN2 suppressed cell growth at 24 h compared with vehicle-treated LECs (p = 0.003 and 0.02) (Figure 4A). The interaction between ERK and DUSP6 was enhanced by CCN2 (Figure 5B). Knockdown of DUSP6 increased phospho-ERK levels compared with control cells (p < 0.001 for 15 m and 4 h; p = 0.04 for 24 h; p = 0.004 for 48 h) (Figure 5D). In the in vivo Matrigel plug assay, the number of Podoplanin-positive vessels was increased by CCN2 (Figure 6B and 6C). Phosphorylated ERK and DUSP6 expression in Podoplanin-positive cells were significantly increased in the CCN2 gel compared with the control gel (p < 0.05) (Figure 7A and 7B).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that CCN2 promotes lymphangiogenesis by upregulating lymphangiogenic factors, activating ERK signaling via integrin av, and modulating ERK activity through DUSP6. The study implies that CCN2 and its downstream signaling pathways, particularly the interaction between ERK and DUSP6, play a crucial role in regulating LEC function and lymphangiogenesis. The results support the hypothesis that CCN2 can influence LEC growth and that DUSP6 acts as a negative regulator of ERK signaling in these cells. The study provides a mechanistic understanding of how CCN2 influences lymphangiogenesis, which may be relevant in understanding the pathophysiology of diseases involving lymphatic dysfunction. The findings suggest that targeting integrin av, ERK, and DUSP6-mediated lymphangiogenesis could be a therapeutic strategy for OSCC and other diseases.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the use of in vitro experiments and the Matrigel plug assay, which may not fully represent the complex in vivo environment. The study does not investigate the specific mechanisms by which CCN2 upregulates the expression of lymphangiogenic factors. The study does not investigate the expression level of Itga5 mRNA. The study does not address the relationship between FOXC1, FOXC2, and DUSP6. The study does not provide information on the random seed used for the experiments. The study does not report the demographics of the mice used in the Matrigel plug assay. The study does not provide information on the train/test split.

Claims
[{"description": "CCN2 upregulates the expression of lymphatic endothelial markers and lymphangiogenic factors in LECs.", "supporting_evidence": "CCN2 treatment increased the expression of Lyve1, Pdpn, Prox1, Vegfc, Vegfd, and Flt4 in primary cultured LECs (Figure 1A, 1B). The expression levels of Lyve1, Pdpn and Prox1 were increased by CCN2 in a dose-dependent manner up to 100 ng/mL.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the role of CCN2 in promoting lymphangiogenesis by increasing the expression of key factors involved in lymphatic vessel formation and function."}, {"description": "CCN2 activates ERK signaling via integrin av in LECs.", "supporting_evidence": "Phospho-ERK was significantly increased in response to CCN2 (p < 0.001) (Figure 2A, 2B). Knockdown of integrin av by siRNA partially decreased phospho-ERK induced by CCN2 (p = 0.0040) (Figure 3B).", "contradicting_evidence": "Knockdown of integrin a9 resulted in a slight increase of CCN2-induced phospho-ERK compared with levels in cells transfected with non-target siRNA (Figure 3C).", "implications": "This suggests that CCN2's effect on ERK signaling is mediated, at least in part, by its interaction with integrin av in LECs."}, {"description": "CCN2 promotes the binding of ERK and DUSP6 in LECs.", "supporting_evidence": "The interaction between ERK and DUSP6 was enhanced by CCN2 (Figure 5B).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that CCN2 influences the regulation of ERK activity through the interaction with DUSP6."}, {"description": "DUSP6 negatively regulates ERK signaling in LECs.", "supporting_evidence": "Knockdown of DUSP6 increased phospho-ERK levels compared with control cells (p < 0.001 for 15 m and 4 h; p = 0.04 for 24 h; p = 0.004 for 48 h) (Figure 5D).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that DUSP6 functions as a negative modulator of ERK signaling in LECs."}, {"description": "CCN2 promotes lymphangiogenesis in vivo.", "supporting_evidence": "In the in vivo Matrigel plug assay, the number of Podoplanin-positive vessels was increased by CCN2 (Figure 6B and 6C).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This confirms the role of CCN2 in promoting lymphangiogenesis in vivo."}, {"description": "Phosphorylated ERK and DUSP6 are co-localized in Podoplanin-positive cells in the CCN2 gel.", "supporting_evidence": "Phosphorylated ERK and DUSP6 expression in Podoplanin-positive cells were significantly increased in the CCN2 gel compared with the control gel (p < 0.05) (Figure 7A and 7B).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that DUSP6 might suppress the excessive activation of ERK, as shown in vitro."}]

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study included siRNA knockdown experiments to investigate the roles of integrins and DUSP6. Knockdown of integrin av decreased phospho-ERK, while knockdown of DUSP6 increased phospho-ERK levels. Suppression of integrin b1 increased phospho-ERK without CCN2 stimulation.

Ethical Considerations
All experiments were performed in compliance with the relevant laws and institutional guidelines and were approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of Fukuoka University (approval number: 2008024).

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 shows the dose-dependent increase in LEC markers and lymphangiogenic factors in response to CCN2. Figure 2 shows the increase in phospho-ERK levels in response to CCN2. Figure 3 shows the effect of integrin knockdown on phospho-ERK levels. Figure 5 shows the interaction between ERK and DUSP6 and the effect of DUSP6 knockdown on phospho-ERK levels. Figure 6 shows the in vivo Matrigel plug assay results, with increased Podoplanin-positive vessels in the CCN2 group. Figure 7 shows the expression of phosphorylated ERK and DUSP6 in the CCN2 gel.

Three Takeaways
(1) CCN2 upregulates lymphangiogenic factors and activates ERK signaling via integrin av in LECs, providing a mechanistic understanding of how CCN2 influences lymphangiogenesis. (2) The strongest evidence is the increased expression of lymphangiogenic factors, the activation of ERK signaling, and the enhanced interaction between ERK and DUSP6, supported by quantitative data from various experiments including RT-PCR, Western blot, and in vivo Matrigel plug assays. (3) The primary limitation is the reliance on in vitro experiments and the Matrigel plug assay, which may not fully represent the complex in vivo environment. Future research should focus on validating these findings in more complex in vivo models and exploring the therapeutic potential of targeting the identified signaling pathways in diseases involving lymphatic dysfunction.