Executive Summary
This study presents a combined evidence approach to prioritize Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs), addressing the urgent need for treatments due to the virus's high mortality rate and potential for global spread. The authors curated a knowledgebase of 182 NVIs, including 98 small molecule inhibitors, from literature. They computed over 1800 descriptors for each NVI and performed comparative analyses with FDA-approved small molecules and antivirals. The study employed a two-pronged strategy: prioritizing NVIs based on the robustness of the assays used for their identification and evaluating their drug-likeness. The drug-likeness analysis included diversity analysis, similarity comparisons, and filtering with PAINS and DruLito. Key findings include the identification of NVIs with nanomolar IC50/EC50 values (as low as 0.47 nM) and the prioritization of 11 NVIs based on assay robustness and drug-like properties. The NVIK platform, developed using LAMP technology, allows for searching, browsing, and submission of new NVIs. The study highlights the chemical diversity within the NVIK library, with the majority of NVIs forming singletons in clustering analyses. The authors identified structural similarities between NVIs and existing drugs, which could aid in repurposing efforts. The study's significance lies in providing a structured knowledgebase and prioritization strategy for NVIs, which can accelerate the development of potential treatments for Nipah virus infections. Limitations include the reliance on existing literature and the need for further experimental validation of the prioritized NVIs.

Research Context
The lack of effective treatments and the high mortality rate associated with Nipah virus (NiV) infections necessitate the development of antiviral therapies. Existing treatments, such as ribavirin, have shown limited efficacy. The study addresses the gap in systematic evaluation of reported NiV inhibitors. Prior efforts have identified NiV inhibitors through various viral assays, including syncytia formation and titre reduction assays. However, these studies lack a comprehensive evaluation of the reported compounds. Antiviral inhibitor databases such as The Influenza Research Database and ViPR contain limited information on NiV inhibitors. The current work aims to provide a curated, structured knowledgebase of NVIs, which can be used as a starting point for drug discovery and development.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to prioritize Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs) for drug development. The study hypothesizes that a combined evidence approach, integrating assay robustness and drug-likeness assessment, can identify promising NVIs. The study also explores the physicochemical properties of NVIs, comparing them to FDA-approved drugs and antivirals to identify potential repurposing candidates. The study predicts that NVIs with favorable drug-like properties, as determined by filters like DruLito, will be prioritized. The study further anticipates that NVIs identified through robust assays will be more likely to exhibit antiviral activity. These hypotheses are tested by curating a knowledgebase of NVIs, analyzing their physicochemical properties, and evaluating their drug-likeness using established filters. The study's approach differs from previous work by systematically evaluating reported NVIs and prioritizing them based on a combined evidence strategy. The outcomes of the study will support the hypotheses if the prioritized NVIs demonstrate favorable drug-like properties and are identified through robust assays. The study will refute the hypotheses if the prioritized NVIs do not exhibit drug-like properties or are not identified through robust assays.

Methodological Details
The study employed a combined evidence approach to prioritize Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs). The primary data source was PubMed and Google, using the search term "Nipah" to identify relevant research papers. Papers were scored based on the relevance of their content to NiV inhibitors, with scores of 10, 5, and 4 assigned to papers with confirmed information, potential information, and peptide inhibitor information, respectively. Papers with scores of 10, 5, and 4 were manually curated to create the Nipah Virus Inhibitor Knowledgebase (NVIK) sheet. A separate team of curators independently re-performed the curation to ensure data quality. The data was stored in an NVIK-Open resource Sheet, serving as a crowdsourcing platform. Each entry was tagged with the contributor's email ID. The NVIK platform was developed using open-source LAMP (Linux-Apache-Mysql-PHP) server technology, utilizing PHP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS. The web interface provides text, structure, and complex query-based search options. The search tools include 'Simple Search', 'Query Builder', and 'Structure Search'. Physicochemical properties were calculated using PaDel software, generating 1875 descriptors. Near neighbors were identified using NNeib (version 5.12.0), and clusters of NVIs were obtained using Jarp (version 6.0.2), based on a dissimilarity threshold of 0.15. Visualization tools included a customized CIRCOS and a compound network diagram (CND) made using Cytoscape. The study did not mention any preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections. The study adhered to ethical standards by obtaining data from public sources and providing a platform for community contributions.

Procedures Architectures
The study's methodology involved the development of the Nipah Virus Inhibitor Knowledgebase (NVIK) platform. The NVIK platform was built using the LAMP (Linux-Apache-Mysql-PHP) server technology, with PHP, HTML, JavaScript, AJAX, and CSS for the web interface. The platform provides a user interface with search tools, including 'Simple Search', 'Query Builder', and 'Structure Search'. The 'Simple Search' option allows text-based queries across all or selected fields. The 'Query Builder' enables complex queries using logical operators. The 'Structure Search' interface supports searches using SMILES, SDF, and MOL formats, as well as a JSME browser for drawing compounds. The platform also includes a browsing interface for physicochemical properties like molecular weight, XLogP, polar surface area (PSA), hydrogen bond donor (HBD), hydrogen bond acceptor (HBA), and the number of rotatable bonds. The platform also allows for the submission of new compounds. The study utilized PaDel software to calculate 1875 descriptors for each NVI. NNeib (version 5.12.0) was used to identify near neighbors, and Jarp (version 6.0.2) was used for clustering based on a dissimilarity threshold of 0.15. The visualization tools included a customized CIRCOS and a compound network diagram (CND) made using Cytoscape. The novelty lies in the creation of a combined evidence-based platform for prioritizing NVIs, integrating assay robustness and drug-likeness assessment.

Key Results
The study curated a knowledgebase of 182 Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs), including 98 small molecule inhibitors. The EC50/IC50 values for the inhibitors ranged from 0.25 nM to 7562710 nM for all entries and from 0.47 nM to 7562710 nM for the 125 small molecule entries. Clustering of the 98 NVIs resulted in 90 clusters, with 84 clusters (93.3% of NVIs) being singletons and 14 clusters (15.5% of NVIs) being non-singletons. The study identified 34 NVIs similar to 76 FDA-approved drugs. For example, NVIC0097 showed structural similarity to Adenosine, Vidarabine, Fludarabine, and Ademetionine. The study prioritized 11 NVIs based on assay robustness. The analysis of FDA-approved compounds for several physicochemical parameters revealed that most prioritized NVIs have drug-like features. NVIC0025, NVIC0032, and NVIC0048 passed 6 DruLito filters. NVIC0048 displayed a high degree of overlap with all six physicochemical parameter ranges, while NVIC0032 (9167 (2,2,2-trifluoro-N-[3-(Nnaphthylcarbamoyl) (4,5,6,7-tetrahydrobenzo[β] exhibits better activity among the three and has considerable overlap with the physicochemical properties of FDA approved drugs. The study did not report any negative results or unexpected findings.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the combined evidence approach is effective in identifying and prioritizing promising Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs). The identification of NVIs with nanomolar IC50/EC50 values indicates the potential for potent antiviral activity. The chemical diversity within the NVIK library suggests that various structural scaffolds can be effective against NiV. The structural similarities between NVIs and existing drugs suggest opportunities for drug repurposing. The prioritization of NVIs based on assay robustness and drug-likeness provides a rational basis for further drug development efforts. The study implies that a systematic evaluation of NVIs, considering both their biological activity and drug-like properties, can accelerate the discovery of effective treatments for Nipah virus infections. The study's findings support the importance of a combined evidence strategy in drug discovery and development.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is its reliance on existing literature and the absence of experimental validation for the prioritized NVIs. The study does not report the specific assays used to determine the IC50/EC50 values, which limits the reproducibility of the findings. The study does not mention the specific criteria used to assess the robustness of the assays. The study's generalizability is limited by the scope of the literature review and the potential for publication bias. The study does not address the potential for off-target effects or toxicity of the prioritized NVIs. The study does not provide information on the specific cell lines used in the assays. The study does not report the random seed used for any of the analyses, which could impact reproducibility. The study does not provide information on the demographics of the curators. The study does not address the potential for human-to-human transmission of NiV. The study does not address the potential for the virus to mutate and develop resistance to the prioritized NVIs.

Claims
[{"description": "A structured knowledgebase of 182 Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs), including 98 small molecules, was created.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports the curation of a knowledgebase containing 182 NVIs, with 98 being small molecules. The EC50/IC50 values range from 0.25 nM to 7562710 nM for all entries and from 0.47 nM to 7562710 nM for the 125 small molecule entries.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide information on the completeness of the literature search, which could limit the comprehensiveness of the knowledgebase.", "implications": "This knowledgebase provides a centralized resource for researchers to access and analyze NVIs, potentially accelerating the development of antiviral therapies."}, {"description": "The NVIK library exhibits chemical diversity, with the majority of NVIs forming singletons in clustering analyses.", "supporting_evidence": "Clustering of the 98 NVIs resulted in 90 clusters, with 84 clusters (93.3% of NVIs) being singletons and 14 clusters (15.5% of NVIs) being non-singletons.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide details on the clustering method used, which could impact the interpretation of the results.", "implications": "The chemical diversity suggests that a range of structural scaffolds can be effective against NiV, potentially expanding the scope of drug discovery efforts."}, {"description": "The study identified structural similarities between NVIs and existing FDA-approved drugs.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports that 34 NVIs are similar to 76 FDA-approved drugs, such as NVIC0097, which showed structural similarity to Adenosine, Vidarabine, Fludarabine, and Ademetionine.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide details on the similarity search method used, which could impact the identification of similar compounds.", "implications": "This finding suggests opportunities for drug repurposing, potentially accelerating the development of NiV treatments."}, {"description": "A combined evidence approach was used to prioritize NVIs.", "supporting_evidence": "The study prioritized 11 NVIs based on assay robustness and drug-like properties. NVIC0025, NVIC0032, and NVIC0048 passed 6 DruLito filters.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide details on the specific criteria used to assess the robustness of the assays.", "implications": "This approach provides a rational basis for prioritizing NVIs for further drug development efforts."}]

Data Code Availability
The data curated from literature along with all these analyses is made available on a web-based platform which also allows submission and assessment of new molecules reported as NVIs. The website is http://vinodscaria.rnabiology.org/nipah.

Ethical Considerations
The study utilized publicly available data and did not involve human or animal subjects. The platform allows for community contributions, which may require ethical considerations related to data privacy and intellectual property. The study does not explicitly address these considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 depicts the overall distribution of important physicochemical properties of NVIs. Figure 3 compares NVIs with FDA-approved compounds and antivirals. Figure 4 shows the results of the DruLito filter analysis. Table 2 presents the prioritized NVIs and their drug-like properties. These figures and tables are essential for understanding the physicochemical properties of NVIs, their comparison with existing drugs, and the prioritization process.

Three Takeaways
(1) The study introduces a combined evidence approach to prioritize Nipah virus inhibitors (NVIs), integrating assay robustness and drug-likeness assessment, which can accelerate the discovery of effective treatments for Nipah virus infections. (2) The study provides a structured knowledgebase of 182 NVIs, including 98 small molecules, and identifies structural similarities between NVIs and existing drugs, providing a centralized resource for researchers and suggesting opportunities for drug repurposing. (3) A primary limitation is the reliance on existing literature and the absence of experimental validation for the prioritized NVIs, highlighting the need for further experimental validation and a more comprehensive analysis of the assays used to identify the inhibitors.