Executive Summary
This paper introduces a bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (bi-LSTM) network for decoding brain states from fMRI data, aiming to capture the temporal dynamics of BOLD responses more effectively than conventional unidirectional LSTM models. The study uses working memory task fMRI data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP). The bi-LSTM model processes fMRI data in both forward and reverse temporal directions, collating the hidden activations to predict brain states at each time instance. The results show that the bi-LSTM model achieved an overall accuracy of 0.84 ± 0.02, outperforming the unidirectional LSTM model, which had an accuracy of 0.66 ± 0.18. This improvement of +0.18 absolute; +27% relative, suggests that incorporating future temporal context enhances brain state decoding. The approach eliminates the need for time-delay adjustments, a common preprocessing step. The primary limitation is the class imbalance in the dataset, which was addressed with class weights but still requires further refinement. Future work includes tuning window size and overlap for time-series chunking and further investigation of the cortical regions involved in specific stimuli.

Research Context
Decoding brain states from fMRI data is crucial for brain-computer interfaces and understanding cognitive processes. Conventional methods, such as univariate analysis, have limitations in capturing the distributed and dynamic nature of brain activity. Prior work has used recurrent neural networks (RNNs), particularly LSTMs, to model temporal dependencies in fMRI data. However, these models typically only consider past information, neglecting the influence of future temporal context due to the inherent latency in fMRI BOLD responses. This study addresses the gap by employing a bi-LSTM architecture to incorporate both past and future temporal information, improving the accuracy of brain state decoding without requiring explicit time-delay adjustments.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a bi-LSTM network can improve the accuracy of brain state decoding from fMRI data compared to a unidirectional LSTM model. The primary hypothesis is that the bi-LSTM model, which incorporates both past and future temporal context, will outperform the unidirectional LSTM model in classifying brain states in a working memory task. An alternative hypothesis is that the performance of the bi-LSTM model will not significantly differ from the unidirectional LSTM model, suggesting that future temporal context does not substantially contribute to brain state decoding. The study aims to demonstrate that the bi-LSTM model can better capture the dynamics of BOLD responses, leading to more accurate brain state predictions, and that this approach can be achieved without the need for time-delay adjustments, which is a common preprocessing step in other fMRI studies. This work differs from prior research by explicitly modeling the dynamics of BOLD response using both past and future temporal information.

Methodological Details
The study employed a within-subjects design to evaluate the performance of a bi-LSTM model for brain state decoding using fMRI data. The sample consisted of N = 400 participants randomly selected from the Human Connectome Project (HCP) data release of N = 1200 participants. Participants performed a working memory task, which involved a 2-back task (indicating if the current stimulus matched the one presented two stimuli before) and a 0-back control condition. The stimuli consisted of tools, places, faces, and body parts. The fMRI data included two runs per participant. Each run contained 8 task blocks for every task and stimuli combination, each lasting 27.5 seconds, and 4 fixation blocks of 15 seconds each. The fMRI data acquisition and task paradigm details are available in the HCP documentation. The preprocessed data, available from HCP, included field-map based distortion correction, functional to structural alignment, and intensity normalization. Motion-related variables and low-frequency signals were regressed out using AFNI software. Cortical data, available in surface representation, was used. The cortical parcellation method developed by [7] was used to separate brain areas, generating 360 cortical regions of interest (ROIs) by averaging the individual voxels within each region. The region-averaged time series served as the input feature vector for temporal analysis. The 405 time-point sequence of 360 ROIs was structured in a 360 by 405 2D-tensor. The time points in task blocks were marked as belonging to one of the 9 brain states, and the time instants belonging to the fixation blocks were labeled as "others". The model was implemented in Keras deep learning framework. The model was trained on a GeForce GTX 980 GPU.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized a bi-LSTM network for brain state decoding. The input to the model was a time series of 360 brain ROIs (x t) at each time point (t). The bi-LSTM network consisted of two hidden bi-LSTM layers, each with 256 hidden activations. The input activations (x t) passed through the two hidden bi-LSTM layers to encode temporal dependencies. The forward hidden activation (→h t l) was computed using standard LSTM equations. The backward hidden activation (←h t l) was calculated using the future temporal dependency (h t+1 l). The input to the subsequent layer was generated by combining both forward and backward hidden activations. The three possible ways of combining the activations are vector concatenation (bi-LSTM-c), element-wise vector addition (bi-LSTM-a), and element-wise averaging (bi-LSTM-µ). The last layer of bi-LSTM was followed by a fully-connected layer with S = 9 neurons and a softmax activation function to map the learned feature representations to the brain states. The model was trained using the ADAM optimizer with a learning rate of 0.001. The model was trained for 100 epochs with a batch size of 32. A dropout of 0.3 was applied in LSTM layers to prevent overfitting. Class weights were estimated using Sklearn's "compute_class_weight" routine to address class imbalance.

Key Results
The bi-LSTM architecture was compared with a unidirectional LSTM and a three-layer feed-forward neural network (ff-NN). The overall accuracy of the unidirectional LSTM model was 0.66 ± 0.18, whereas the classification accuracy of the bidirectional LSTM (bi-LSTM-c) was 0.84 ± 0.02. The bi-LSTM-c model significantly outperformed the unidirectional LSTM model. The bi-LSTM model demonstrated better performance in classifying brain states, with lower misclassification rates compared to the LSTM model. The misclassification was highest for the "Others" class in both models. The second-highest confusion occurred when participants were stimulated with "faces" and "places", with the task (0-back or 2-back) being misclassified, although the stimuli were detected correctly. The model also showed confusion between the stimuli "body" and "tools".

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that incorporating future temporal context via bi-LSTM improves the accuracy of brain state decoding, indicating that the dynamics of BOLD responses are better captured by considering information from both past and future time points. The superior performance of the bi-LSTM model supports the hypothesis that the temporal context from future time points is important for generating accurate representations of brain states. The results imply that the BOLD response is not solely dependent on past events, but also influenced by upcoming stimuli. The study demonstrates that this can be achieved without the need for time-delay adjustments, which simplifies the preprocessing pipeline. The model's confusion between certain stimuli (e.g., "body" and "tools") suggests that further investigation into the cortical regions involved in processing these stimuli is warranted.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation of the study is the class imbalance in the working memory task data, where the "others" class had significantly more instances than other classes. Although class weights were used to mitigate this issue, it still requires further refinement. The study's generalizability is limited by the use of a specific dataset (HCP working memory task) and the fixed window length used for time-series chunking. The study does not report the random seed used for the train/test split. The model's confusion between certain stimuli suggests a need for further investigation into the specific cortical regions involved in processing those stimuli. The study did not perform any explicit time-delay adjustment, which is a common preprocessing step in other fMRI studies. The study's findings are consistent with the hypothesis that future temporal context is important for capturing the dynamics of BOLD responses.

Claims
[{"description": "The bi-LSTM model significantly improves brain state decoding accuracy compared to the unidirectional LSTM model.", "supporting_evidence": "The bi-LSTM model achieved an overall accuracy of 0.84 ± 0.02, while the unidirectional LSTM model achieved an accuracy of 0.66 ± 0.18 (Figure 2). This represents an absolute improvement of +0.18 and a relative improvement of +27%.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the use of bi-LSTM for more accurate brain state decoding, potentially improving the performance of brain-computer interfaces and other applications that rely on real-time brain state assessment."}, {"description": "The bi-LSTM model effectively captures the dynamics of BOLD responses by incorporating both past and future temporal information.", "supporting_evidence": "The bi-LSTM model showed lower misclassification rates compared to the unidirectional LSTM model across various brain states.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the BOLD response is not solely dependent on past events, but also influenced by upcoming stimuli, which is crucial for understanding cognitive processes."}, {"description": "The bi-LSTM model can achieve improved brain state decoding without requiring time-delay adjustments.", "supporting_evidence": "The study did not perform any time-delay adjustment for the synchronization of stimuli and BOLD response.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This simplifies the preprocessing pipeline and highlights the potential of bi-LSTM for real-time applications."}, {"description": "The model exhibits confusion between certain stimuli, indicating areas for further investigation.", "supporting_evidence": "The model showed confusion between the stimuli \"body\" and \"tools\", and between the task (0-back or 2-back) when the stimuli were \"faces\" and \"places\".", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that further research is needed to understand the specific cortical regions involved in processing these stimuli and to improve the model's ability to differentiate between them."}]

Data Code Availability
Data is available from the Human Connectome Project (HCP).

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 illustrates the mean normalized confusion matrices, comparing the misclassifications of both LSTM and bi-LSTM-c. The figure shows the overall accuracy and the misclassification rates for each brain state, providing visual evidence of the bi-LSTM model's superior performance.

Three Takeaways
The core novel contribution is the application of a bi-LSTM network for brain state decoding from fMRI data, which incorporates both past and future temporal context to improve accuracy. The strongest evidence is the quantitative result that the bi-LSTM model achieved an overall accuracy of 0.84 ± 0.02, outperforming the unidirectional LSTM model with an accuracy of 0.66 ± 0.18. The primary limitation is the class imbalance in the dataset, which requires more sophisticated handling, and the fixed window length used for time-series chunking. Future work may involve tuning the window-size and overlap for time-series chunking and further investigation of the cortical regions engaged in stimuli.