Executive Summary
This study investigated the impact of silver nanoparticle (mNP) morphology on the dielectric properties of magnesium oxide (MgO) nanocomposite (NC) materials. The research aimed to model the polarization of molecular-scale silver inclusions within an MgO matrix, using the Modern Theory of Polarization and Car-Parinello Molecular Dynamics (CPMD). The study considered mNPs of varying sizes (8–32 atoms), shapes (rod-like and disk-like), and orientations relative to an applied electric field. The key finding was that the mNP morphology significantly influences the dielectric permittivity (κ) of the NC material. Dielectric permittivity enhancements of 30–100% were observed, with the enhancement varying based on the mNP's shape and orientation. Rod-like and disk-like inclusions exhibited different polarization behaviors, with disk-like inclusions showing a higher dielectric response compared to rod-like inclusions at similar atom loading. The study highlights the importance of interfacial effects between the mNPs and the MgO matrix, which contribute to the overall dielectric response. The results suggest a potential for tuning the dielectric properties of NC materials by controlling the size, shape, and orientation of the mNP inclusions. The primary limitation is the computational constraints that limited the size of the nanoparticles that could be modeled.

Research Context
The demand for high-κ dielectric materials is increasing due to the limitations of traditional single-phase materials in miniaturized electronic devices. Nanocomposite (NC) materials, which combine a dielectric matrix with inclusions of high-κ materials, offer a promising avenue for tuning dielectric properties. Prior research has explored various inclusions, including metal nanoparticles, but a comprehensive understanding of how mNP morphology affects the dielectric response is lacking. Effective medium approximations are suitable for macroscale mixtures but do not capture quantum response and local field effects. Direct DFT approaches have been used for doped materials, but a complete treatment of the quantum polarization of the mixed material has not been attempted until recently. This study builds upon previous work that modeled the polarization of mNP NCs, aiming to explore the effects of mNP distribution and shape on the dielectric capacity of a metal-oxide material.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how the morphology (size, shape, and orientation) of molecular-scale silver inclusions in an MgO matrix affects the dielectric properties of the resulting NC material. The study hypothesized that the size, shape, and orientation of the mNP inclusions would significantly alter the dielectric permittivity of the NC material. The alternative hypothesis is that the mNP morphology has a negligible effect on the dielectric properties. The study predicted that specific mNP shapes and orientations would lead to enhanced dielectric permittivity compared to the bulk MgO matrix. The study aimed to determine the relationship between mNP morphology and the local polarization fields within the NC material. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the effects of mNP shape and orientation, and by using the Modern Theory of Polarization and CPMD to model the quantum polarization effects.

Methodological Details
The study employed computational modeling using the CPMD method within the Quantum Espresso (QE) code. The NC systems consisted of an MgO matrix with silver mNP inclusions. MgO was chosen for its well-researched properties, cubic crystal structure, and low number of polarizable d-electrons. Models were built using Avogadro software. Three rod-like and five disk-like mNP inclusions were considered. Inclusions were built on an ideal Ag fcc lattice and allowed to optimize in the CPMD simulations. The matrix extended two Mg-O layers beyond the edge of the inclusion in each direction. The low-frequency polarization was calculated using the Modern Theory of Polarization, with the CPMD method used in QE. The electronic structure was calculated using CPMD, with initial electron minimization followed by damped dynamics steps to relax ions and electrons. A static field of 0.001 a.u. was applied along the z-axis. The electronic and ionic polarization was calculated using damped dynamics. The electronic polarization and Born effective charges (BECs) were calculated in the clamped-ion step of the procedure. Electronic structure calculations were carried out in a zero-field environment. The calculations used the LDA functional with a plane wave-basis set. Mg atoms were described using Bachelet-Hamann-Schluter norm-conserving pseudopotentials, and Rappe-Rabe-Kaxiras-Joannopoulos ultra-soft pseudopotentials were used for O and Ag. The total energy convergence criteria was increased to 10⁻⁸, with a force threshold of 10⁻⁴. A wavefunction cutoff of 50-60Ry and charge density cutoff of 560Ry were used. The Brillouin zone was sampled at the Γ point. Periodic boundary conditions were used. The study did not use a thermostat, but test runs between 200 and 600K were performed. No preregistration was performed. The study did not report any multiple-comparison corrections.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized the CPMD method within the Quantum Espresso (QE) code to model the dielectric response of MgO NCs with silver mNP inclusions. The models were constructed using Avogadro software. The CPMD method involved two major stages: structural relaxation and polarization calculation. The electronic structure calculations used the LDA functional with a plane wave-basis set. Mg atoms were described using Bachelet-Hamann-Schluter norm-conserving pseudopotentials, and Rappe-Rabe-Kaxiras-Joannopoulos ultra-soft pseudopotentials were used for O and Ag. The total energy convergence criteria was increased to 10⁻⁸, with a force threshold of 10⁻⁴. A wavefunction cutoff of 50-60Ry and charge density cutoff of 560Ry were used. The Brillouin zone was sampled at the Γ point. Periodic boundary conditions were used. The modern theory of polarization was used to calculate the low-frequency dielectric constant (εr). The εr was calculated using the formula: εr = 1 + 4π(Pε damped - Pε relax)/Ωε field. The static field (ε field) was 0.001 a.u. applied along the z-axis. The electronic and ionic polarization were calculated using damped dynamics. The study also calculated Born effective charges (BECs) to understand electronic polarization effects. The study did not apply a thermostat during the simulations. The study used a series of optimization steps to relax the atomic and electronic structure, including initial electron minimization, damped dynamics steps, and lattice vector relaxation. The study's novelty lies in its detailed investigation of how mNP morphology, including size, shape, and orientation, affects the dielectric properties of the NC material.

Key Results
The study found that the mNP morphology significantly influences the dielectric permittivity (κ) of the NC material. Dielectric permittivity enhancements of 30–100% were observed. The Ag/MgO NCs with rod-like and disk-like inclusions showed different dielectric responses. For example, the multi-layer disks (disks 332, 432 and 442) exhibited more than 70% enhancement in εr over the matrix permittivity, at similar volume loading. The results indicated that asymmetric inclusions bring on a dielectric enhancement that is, depending on orientation, even larger than expected based on volume ratios. Rod-like inclusions showed a greater increase in polarization along the z-axis (ε) than the perpendicular direction. Disk nanoparticles showed similar effects with an exponential increase in ε compared to their rod counterparts. Disk442 has a polarization increase of more than twice in comparison to Rod223. The study also found that the Born effective charges reflect the influence of the NP polarization on the charge distribution in the matrix ions. The study did not report any negative results.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the dielectric properties of NC materials can be tuned by controlling the size, shape, and orientation of mNP inclusions. The study highlights the importance of interfacial effects between the mNPs and the MgO matrix, which contribute to the overall dielectric response. The results support the idea that the electron dynamics within the mNPs, as influenced by their morphology, affect the local polarization fields and, consequently, the dielectric permittivity of the NC material. The induced fields at the matrix-inclusion interface depend on the electron dynamics as the metal atom polarizes. Increasing the atoms aligned to the applied field increases the charge density in the interface, leading to larger areas of increased effective polarizability. The study implies that the design of NC materials for specific applications can be optimized by carefully selecting the mNP morphology. The study provides a way to understand quantum materials behaviour as materials get smaller and more precise.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the computational constraints that limited the size of the nanoparticles that could be modeled. The study did not consider the effects of temperature. The study did not account for surface charge and edge effects, as the material simulated was periodic. The study did not report the random seed used for the simulations. The study did not report the train/test split. The study did not report the demographics of the simulated materials. The study did not discuss any conflicts with prior literature. The study did not address the external validity of the findings. The study did not discuss any subgroup effects. The study did not address any internal inconsistencies. The study did not discuss any key threats to inference.

Claims
[{"description": "The dielectric permittivity of the Ag/MgO NC material is significantly influenced by the morphology of the silver mNP inclusions.", "supporting_evidence": "Dielectric permittivity enhancements of 30–100% were observed with inclusion sizes varying from 8 to 32 atoms. The multi-layer disks (disks 332, 432 and 442) exhibited more than 70% enhancement in εr over the matrix permittivity, at similar volume loading.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the dielectric properties of NC materials can be tuned by controlling the size, shape, and orientation of mNP inclusions."}, {"description": "Disk-like mNP inclusions exhibit a higher dielectric response compared to rod-like inclusions at similar atom loading.", "supporting_evidence": "Disk-like nanoparticles showed an exponential increase in ε compared to their rod counterparts. Disk442 has a polarization increase of more than twice in comparison to Rod223.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of mNP shape in determining the overall dielectric properties of the NC material."}, {"description": "The orientation of the mNP inclusions relative to the applied electric field affects the dielectric permittivity.", "supporting_evidence": "Rod-like inclusions showed a greater increase in polarization along the z-axis (ε) than the perpendicular direction.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that controlling the orientation of mNPs can be used to tailor the dielectric response of the NC material."}, {"description": "Interfacial effects between the mNPs and the MgO matrix play a crucial role in the dielectric response of the NC material.", "supporting_evidence": "The Born effective charges reflect the influence of the NP polarization on the charge distribution in the matrix ions. The induced fields at the matrix-inclusion interface depend on the electron dynamics as the metal atom polarizes.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This emphasizes the importance of understanding and controlling the interactions at the interface for optimizing the dielectric properties of NC materials."}]

Key Figures Tables
Table 1 presents the dielectric permittivity (εr) values for Ag/MgO NCs with rod-like and disk-like inclusions. The table demonstrates the impact of mNP shape and orientation on the dielectric response, with disk-like inclusions generally showing higher permittivity enhancements. Figure 9 shows interpolated maps for the NC with a 224 rodlike inclusion. Enhancement of the polarization field is seen in the matrix in regions adjacent to the NP poles, in the direction of the applied field. In the equatorial region a depolarization arises (red/yellow regions in BEC plots) where the effective ionic charge is less than in the absence of the external field. Whereas the enhancement is strongly localized to two layers of matrix ions at the interface, the (weaker) depolarization field is often extended over large regions of the cell.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution of this study is the demonstration that the morphology of molecular-scale silver inclusions in an MgO matrix significantly affects the dielectric permittivity of the resulting NC material, with disk-like inclusions showing the most significant enhancements. (2) The strongest evidence supporting this claim is the observation of dielectric permittivity enhancements of 30–100% and the specific results presented in Table 1, which show the varying dielectric responses based on mNP shape and orientation. (3) The primary limitation is the computational constraints that limited the size of the nanoparticles that could be modeled, which may affect the generalizability of the findings. Future work could focus on simulating larger mNPs and exploring other matrix materials and inclusion materials to build a more robust understanding of molecular scale NC materials.