Executive Summary
This study presents a computational methodology to identify energetically favorable configurations of cubic Li7La3Zr2O12 (c-LLZO), a promising solid electrolyte material. The research addresses the challenge of determining the ground state configuration of c-LLZO, which is crucial for accurate computational modeling. The methodology involves generating all possible Li site occupancies, eliminating structures with overlapping Li atoms based on a minimal Li-Li distance of 1.7 Å, and reducing the configuration space by removing symmetry images. A machine learning-based multiple linear regression (MLR) model is then employed to energetically order the remaining structures using DFT calculations. The study found that a significant portion of previously reported structures may not be feasible or stable based on geometrical constraints. The lowest energy structures were identified, with a 24d:96h ratio of 8:48. The average energy for all structures was 1.47 eV higher than the ground state structures. The four lowest energy structures are within 0.026 eV of each other. The novelty lies in the systematic generation and energetic ordering of all possible structures, providing a more comprehensive approach than previous studies. This work is significant because it provides a reliable method to identify stable structures for c-LLZO, which can improve the accuracy and reproducibility of future research and aid in the development of solid-state batteries. The primary limitation is the exclusion of entropic contributions and the assumption of reasonable ordering upon geometry relaxation. The study provides a freely accessible database of generated structures to improve reproducibility.

Research Context
The development of solid electrolytes for Li-ion batteries is crucial for improving energy density, safety, and lifespan. c-LLZO is a promising solid electrolyte material, but there is no consensus on its Li occupancy, which hinders accurate computational modeling. Previous studies often rely on experimental values as starting points, leading to potential inaccuracies. The lack of a comprehensive understanding of c-LLZO's structure limits the ability to predict its properties and optimize its performance. This work addresses the gap by providing a systematic approach to identify energetically favorable c-LLZO configurations. Prior approaches often use a single structure as a starting point, which may not be close to the ground state, leading to inaccurate predictions. This study overcomes these limitations by generating and ranking all possible structures, providing a more comprehensive and reliable approach.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How can we identify energetically favorable configurations of c-LLZO to improve the accuracy and reproducibility of future research? The study hypothesizes that a systematic approach, considering geometrical constraints and energetic ordering, will reveal the most stable c-LLZO structures. The alternative hypothesis is that the previously reported structures are not representative of a real system. The study aims to determine if the 24d:96h ratio is indicative of a structure's energy. The outcomes that would support the hypothesis include identifying low-energy structures and demonstrating that a significant portion of previously reported structures are not feasible. This approach differs from prior work by generating and energetically ordering all possible structures, rather than relying on a single starting point. The study also aims to provide a database of all generated structures to improve reproducibility in the field.

Methodological Details
The study employed a computational methodology to identify energetically favorable configurations of c-LLZO. The study did not include any human participants. The primary data used were the crystallographic data of c-LLZO. The study utilized the crystal structure sites reported by Buschmann et al. to perform the generation of structures. The generation of structures started by eliminating all overlapping Li atoms by imposing a minimal Li-Li distance of 1.7 Å. The configuration space was reduced by eliminating symmetry images using local sensitive hashing (LSH). The structures were energetically ordered using a multiple linear regression (MLR) model. DFT calculations were performed using the ONETEP code with the PBE GGA exchange correlation functional and a kinetic energy cutoff of 830 eV. The DFT calculations were performed on two major subsets of structures: the 200 energetically lowest structures according to the COMPASSIII forcefield and a random selection of approximately 1000 structures across the entire configuration space. The data were split into test and training sets with a 1:3 ratio. The MLR model used a frequency occurrence list of all possible Li-Li interactions to represent the structures. Symmetry checks were validated against the atomic simulation environment (ASE) python package's symmetry equivalence check. The study did not use any preregistration. Multiple-comparison corrections were not mentioned. The study adhered to ethical standards by providing a freely accessible database and aiming to improve reproducibility in the field.

Procedures Architectures
The methodology involved generating all possible structures for a c-LLZO unit cell, followed by a series of steps to reduce the configuration space. The initial step involved eliminating structures with overlapping Li atoms, using a minimal Li-Li distance of 1.7 Å. The number of structures for each 24d:96h ratio was calculated using the equation: x = (N96h choose y96h) * (24 choose x), where N96h is the number of total 96h sites, y96h is the number of 96h sites occupied, and x is the number of 24d sites occupied. The code used the crystal structure sites reported by Buschmann et al. to perform the generation. Symmetry-equivalent duplicates were removed using local sensitive hashing (LSH). The MLR model was trained on DFT calculations performed using the ONETEP code. The ONETEP calculations used the PBE GGA exchange correlation functional and a kinetic energy cutoff of 830 eV. The structures were represented by a frequency occurrence list of all possible Li-Li interactions. The MLR model was validated using a test set. The study used the COMPASSIII forcefield to order the structures. The symmetry checking methodology was validated using the atomic simulation environment (ASE) python package's symmetry equivalence check. The study used the Broyder-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno (BFGS) algorithm for geometry optimization. The study used CASTEP on-the-fly generated pseudopotentials. The software versions are not explicitly mentioned.

Key Results
The study generated approximately 2.3 × 10^8 structures initially, which was reduced to approximately 2 × 10^6 structures after symmetry reduction. The MLR model achieved a correlation of 0.9996 on the test set. The lowest energy structures were found to have a 24d:96h ratio of 8:48. The average energy for all structures was 1.47 eV higher than the ground state structures. The four lowest energy structures are within 0.026 eV of each other (1 kT at 298 K). Geometry optimization narrowed the energy gap between the four lowest energy structures further. The average energy for each ratio increases with increasing 24d occupancy. The study found that 19 out of the 20 lowest energy structures have a ratio of 8:48, with the 19th lowest being 9:47. The 96h to 24d transition yielded the lowest overall energy structure, 0.58 eV lower in energy than the geometry optimized lowest energy single point structure. The study found a negative correlation between the mean distance moved of all Li atoms in the c-LLZO structure and increasing energy of the final optimised c-LLZO structure. The study found a weaker negative correlation between distance to a crystallographic site and energy.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the 8:48 24d:96h ratio is energetically favored for c-LLZO structures. The energetic preference to avoid 24d occupation indicates that the Li atoms prefer to occupy the 96h sites. The results imply that the choice of Li site occupancy significantly impacts the energy of the c-LLZO structure. The study highlights the importance of considering geometrical constraints and energetic ordering when modeling c-LLZO. The negative correlation between the movement of Li atoms and the energy of the structure suggests that structural relaxation is crucial for accurate energy predictions. The study provides insights into the structural stability of c-LLZO and its potential implications for solid-state battery performance. The findings support the hypothesis that a systematic approach can reveal the most stable c-LLZO structures.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's energetic ordering procedure does not include entropic contributions, which is a limitation. The study assumes a reasonable retention of ordering upon geometry relaxation, which is also an approximation. The study does not provide information on the random seed used for the random selection of structures. The study did not report the demographics of the materials. The study's findings may not be directly applicable to all c-LLZO compositions or synthesis methods. The study's MLR model is based on DFT calculations, which have their own limitations. The study acknowledges that the choice of initial structure in previous studies was mostly for convenience and a low energy structures is not necessarily guarenteed. The study also notes that coulombic forces alone is not sufficient to energetically order c-LLZO structures.

Claims
[{"description": "The 8:48 24d:96h ratio is energetically favored for c-LLZO structures.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found that 19 out of the 20 lowest energy structures have a ratio of 8:48 (Figure 2b).", "contradicting_evidence": "The 19th lowest energy structure has a 9:47 ratio.", "implications": "This suggests that the 8:48 configuration is a stable and likely ground state structure for c-LLZO."}, {"description": "The average energy for all structures is 1.47 eV higher than the ground state structures.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reported that the average energy for all structures occurs at 1.47 eV higher than the ground state structures.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates a significant energy difference between the ground state and other possible configurations."}, {"description": "The four lowest energy structures are within 0.026 eV of each other.", "supporting_evidence": "The study found that four structures, all 8:48, are within 0.026 eV (1 kT at 298 K) of the lowest energy structure (Figure 3).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that multiple configurations with similar energies are possible."}, {"description": "A significant portion of previously reported structures may not be feasible or stable based on geometrical constraints.", "supporting_evidence": "The study used the basis of disallowing structures with atoms too close to each other, to highlight that a large proportion of experimental and theoretical literature are predicting or working with structures that are not reflective of a real system (Figure 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the importance of considering geometrical constraints when modeling c-LLZO."}, {"description": "Movement from original sites is preferable to attain lower energies.", "supporting_evidence": "There is a negative correlation between the mean distance moved of all Li atoms in the c-LLZO structure and increasing energy of the final optimised c-LLZO structure (Figure S7a).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that structural relaxation is crucial for accurate energy predictions."}]

Data Code Availability
The structures generated in this work are published alongside the results in the Supporting Information (SI) section. The scripts used for symmetry checking are provided with the database in SI section. The study is available on ChemRxiv.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study performed geometry optimization calculations on a small dataset of 20 structures to assess the effect of geometry relaxation. The study validated the symmetry checking methodology by comparing its results against more rigorous methods using the atomic simulation environment (ASE) python package's symmetry equivalence check on the two smallest 24d:96h ratios.

Ethical Considerations
The study provides a freely accessible database of generated structures to improve reproducibility in the field. The study aims to improve accuracy and reproducibility in future c-LLZO research. The study does not mention any specific ethical risks or approvals.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 illustrates the c-LLZO structure with Li atoms and the 24d:96h ratio. Figure 2b shows the distribution of energies for different 24d:96h ratios. Figure 3 shows the workflow used to find the final four structures. Table 1 provides the number of structures for each 24d:96h ratio. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the methodology and results of the study. The axes and metrics show the 24d:96h ratio, the energy, and the structure identity. These figures and tables substantiate the core claims about the energetic favorability of certain configurations and the impact of the 24d:96h ratio.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is a systematic methodology for identifying energetically favorable configurations of c-LLZO, which involves generating all possible structures, eliminating those with overlapping Li atoms, reducing the configuration space using symmetry, and energetically ordering the structures using an MLR model. (2) The strongest evidence is the identification of the 8:48 24d:96h ratio as energetically favored, with 19 out of the 20 lowest energy structures having this ratio, and the average energy for all structures being 1.47 eV higher than the ground state structures. (3) The primary limitation is the exclusion of entropic contributions and the assumption of reasonable ordering upon geometry relaxation. Future work could focus on incorporating these factors to further refine the model and improve the accuracy of energy predictions.