Executive Summary
EcoEvoApps is an open-source R package and website providing interactive apps that simulate fundamental ecology and evolutionary biology (EEB) models. The project addresses the barrier of limited integration between theoretical and empirical approaches in EEB, where mathematical models can seem inaccessible to those with empirical backgrounds. The package includes 11 interactive apps simulating various EEB models, such as predator-prey dynamics and abiotic resource competition. These apps are accessible online and can be launched locally via the R console. The package also provides functions to simulate model dynamics and create visualizations. The authors evaluated the apps' effectiveness in classroom settings, surveying 51 students in an upper-division Ecology course at UCLA and students in a General Ecology course at University of Missouri. Results showed that a majority of students found the apps helpful for understanding models and related concepts. The primary novelty lies in the open-source, R-based platform, making it easily accessible and customizable. The project's significance lies in its potential to bridge the gap between theoretical and empirical research in EEB by providing an accessible and interactive platform for exploring mathematical models. A key limitation is the current focus on ecological models, with plans to incorporate models from evolutionary biology and population genetics.

Research Context
The integration of theoretical and empirical approaches is crucial for advancing the life sciences, particularly in ecology and evolutionary biology. However, barriers such as the inaccessibility of mathematical models to empiricists hinder this integration. Equation-heavy papers are cited less often, and instructors who de-emphasize quantitative topics receive better student evaluations. Existing calls for increased quantitative training primarily focus on statistical models or programming skills, with fewer advances in the pedagogy of theoretical models. Prior approaches include interactive tools to explore model structure and outcomes, which have shown to increase student interest and understanding. This work addresses the need for accessible tools to facilitate communication and collaboration between theoretical and empirical researchers in EEB.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether interactive apps can facilitate communication and learning of theoretical models in ecology and evolutionary biology. The study hypothesizes that interactive apps will improve students' understanding of EEB models and related concepts. This hypothesis is supported by the expectation that interactive tools will make complex models more accessible and engaging, leading to better comprehension. The study also explores whether the apps can be used as a formal instruction tool for teaching mathematical models. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the pedagogy of theoretical models, rather than emphasizing statistical models or programming skills. The study's outcomes would support the hypothesis if students report that the apps are helpful for learning the models as a whole and for understanding specific concepts. Refutation would occur if students found the apps unhelpful or if they did not improve understanding. The study also aims to evaluate the value of these apps in classroom settings.

Methodological Details
The study employed a mixed-methods approach, combining the development of interactive apps with student surveys to assess their effectiveness. The study design involved creating an open-source R package (ecoevoapps) and website (https://ecoevoapps.gitlab.io) that provides interactive apps simulating fundamental EEB models. The package includes 11 interactive apps, chosen by surveying syllabi and commonly used textbooks. The apps cover models such as predator-prey dynamics and abiotic resource competition. The study included two classroom surveys. The first survey included 51 students who used the shiny apps for Island Biogeography and Lotka-Volterra competition in an upper-division Ecology course at UCLA. The learning activity involved short video lectures and a worksheet. The second survey was conducted with students in a General Ecology course at the University of Missouri. Students rated the apps' helpfulness on a scale of 1-7. The UCLA Institutional Review Board and MU Institutional Review Board determined the classroom surveys to be “exempt” studies (UCLA IRB #20-002179; MU IRB Project #2031063, Review #276104). The analysis included tracking individual students' interest and confidence in models before and after the activity.

Procedures Architectures
The core of EcoEvoApps consists of 11 interactive Shiny apps. These apps are accessible online via RStudio's shinyapps.io servers and can be launched locally from the R console. The package uses functions with the prefix `shiny_` to launch the apps. The package also includes model-specific vignettes with instructions for simulating model dynamics directly through R. The apps use functions with the prefix `run_` to simulate model dynamics, taking parameter values, initial conditions, and time steps as input. The package also includes plotting functions, prefixed `plot_`, which take the output of `run_` functions and return a `ggplot2` object. The package is written in R and is open-source. The apps are designed to be customizable, with instructions for users who wish to modify an app's content. The apps incorporate models such as the MacArthur-Rosenzweig model, with options to explore the effects of varying parameters like prey carrying capacity (K). The apps are designed to facilitate communication and collaboration between theoretical and empirical researchers in EEB. The package is designed to be a gateway for users to implement and manipulate mathematical models at the command line.

Key Results
The study found that a majority of students reported that the apps were moderately to very helpful for learning the models as a whole (40/51 students reported a response of 6 or 7, Fig. 3A). The apps also appear to help students better understand specific ideas related to the models (e.g. students report that they better understand the concepts of "carrying capacity" or "coexistence" after using the Lotka-Volterra competition app, Fig. 3B). Surveys of students in a General Ecology course at the University of Missouri (MU) yielded similar results. By tracking individual students' interest and confidence in models before and after the activity, the study found that using interactive apps led to substantial gains in student confidence, especially among students who express higher interest in related topics (Fig. S2.1). The predator-prey dynamics app was used to visualize the paradox of enrichment, demonstrating how varying the prey carrying capacity (K) affects the system's dynamics. Low values of K resulted in stable oscillations, while high values resulted in unstable oscillations. The study did not report any negative results.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that interactive apps can effectively communicate and teach insights from theoretical models in EEB. The apps' ability to improve student understanding of complex concepts like carrying capacity and coexistence implies that they can bridge the gap between theoretical and empirical approaches. The use of the predator-prey app to visualize the paradox of enrichment highlights the potential for these apps to clarify the role and consequences of different biological factors. The results support the idea that simulation-based learning can provide insights similar to analytical solutions, making theoretical models more accessible. The study implies that platforms like R and Shiny can be leveraged to build tools that give easier access to theoretical insights. The findings suggest that the apps can be used as a formal instruction tool for teaching mathematical models.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the current focus on ecological models, with the need to incorporate models from evolutionary biology and population genetics. The study's scope is limited to the models included in the EcoEvoApps package. The study's external validity is limited to the specific models and student populations used in the surveys. The study does not address potential differences in learning outcomes based on student background or prior experience with quantitative methods. The study does not report on any internal inconsistencies. The study's findings are based on self-reported data from student surveys, which may be subject to bias. The study does not mention the random seed used for the simulations. The study does not provide details on the demographics of the student populations.

Claims
[{"description": "Interactive apps can improve students' understanding of EEB models.", "supporting_evidence": "An overwhelming majority of students (40/51) reported that the apps were moderately to very helpful for learning the models as a whole (response of 6 or 7, Fig. 3A).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This supports the use of interactive apps as a tool for teaching quantitative models in classroom settings."}, {"description": "Interactive apps can help students better understand specific concepts related to EEB models.", "supporting_evidence": "Students reported that they better understand the concepts of \"carrying capacity\" or \"coexistence\" after using the Lotka-Volterra competition app (Fig. 3B).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that the apps can facilitate a deeper understanding of complex ecological concepts."}, {"description": "Using interactive apps leads to gains in student confidence in models.", "supporting_evidence": "By tracking individual students' interest and confidence in models before and after the activity, the study found that using interactive apps led to substantial gains in student confidence, especially among students who express higher interest in related topics (Fig. S2.1).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that the apps can improve students' engagement with and understanding of quantitative concepts."}, {"description": "The EcoEvoApps platform provides a tool for visualizing complex ecological phenomena.", "supporting_evidence": "The predator-prey dynamics app was used to visualize the paradox of enrichment, demonstrating how varying the prey carrying capacity (K) affects the system's dynamics (Fig. 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights the potential of the apps to clarify the role and consequences of different biological factors and to facilitate communication between theoreticians and empiricists."}]

Data Code Availability
The ecoevoapps package can be installed from GitLab.

Ethical Considerations
Classroom surveys were reviewed by the UCLA Institutional Review Board and MU Institutional Review Board and were determined to constitute "exempt" studies (UCLA IRB #20-002179; MU IRB Project #2031063, Review #276104).

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows screenshots of the predator-prey dynamics shiny app being used to simulate the MacArthur-Rosenzweig model. Panel A shows dampened oscillations at low prey carrying capacities (K=200), and Panel B shows unstable oscillations at high prey carrying capacity (K=500). Figure 3 shows the results of the student surveys. Panel A shows the distribution of student responses regarding the helpfulness of the apps for learning the models as a whole. Panel B shows the student's understanding of specific concepts. Table 1 lists the models and functions included in the ecoevoapps package.

Three Takeaways
(1) EcoEvoApps offers an open-source, R-based platform with interactive apps designed to simulate EEB models, making theoretical concepts more accessible and customizable for both individual users and classroom settings. 

(2) Student surveys revealed that a significant majority of students found the apps helpful for understanding EEB models and related concepts, with 40 out of 51 students reporting that the apps were moderately to very helpful for learning the models as a whole (Fig. 3A), providing strong evidence for the apps' effectiveness as a teaching tool. 

(3) A primary limitation is the current focus on ecological models; future work should incorporate models from evolutionary biology and population genetics to broaden the scope of the platform, thereby addressing a wider range of EEB research areas.