Executive Summary
This study investigates the physicochemical properties of highly concentrated aqueous binary solutions of potassium acetate (CH3COOK) and sodium acetate (CH3COONa) as potential electrolytes for sodium-ion batteries. The research focuses on solutions with a constant CH3COOK concentration of 20 mol kg-1 and varying CH3COONa concentrations. The most promising electrolyte, 7 mol kg-1 CH3COONa with 20 mol kg-1 CH3COOK, demonstrated a good balance between transport properties and electrochemical stability. This solution exhibited a conductivity of 21.2 mS cm-1 at 25°C and an electrochemical stability window (ESW) of up to 3 V. As a proof of concept, carbon-coated LiTi2(PO4)3 (CLTP) was used as an electrode material in a sodium-ion battery using the 7N20K electrolyte. The CLTP electrode showed reversible Na+ ion insertion/de-insertion at approximately -0.7 V vs. SHE, with an initial anodic capacity of 85 mAh g-1, an average charge efficiency of 96% at low current, and 90% capacity retention after 60 cycles. The low activation energy for the charge transfer process (0.12 eV) indicated favorable kinetic properties at the electrode/electrolyte interface. The study's novelty lies in the use of a binary acetate salt system as a water-in-salt electrolyte, offering a cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternative to fluorinated salts. A primary limitation is the use of a small surface area and highly electrocatalytic electrode in a flooded cell for ESW measurements. The findings suggest the potential for developing safe and efficient sodium-ion batteries using concentrated aqueous electrolytes.

Research Context
Conventional lithium-ion batteries (LIBs) face challenges related to safety and cost due to the use of organic electrolytes. Aqueous electrolytes offer advantages like inherent safety and environmental friendliness but suffer from a narrow electrochemical stability window (ESW). Prior work has explored the use of high-concentration electrolytes, including water-in-salt electrolytes (WISE), to broaden the ESW. However, the use of fluorinated salts in WISE raises environmental and economic concerns. This study addresses the need for cost-effective and sustainable alternatives by investigating binary acetate salt solutions as WISE electrolytes, which have not been extensively studied in this context. The study builds on the concept of WISE, but focuses on more sustainable and cost-effective salts.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a highly concentrated aqueous binary solution of CH3COOK and CH3COONa can serve as a viable electrolyte for sodium-ion batteries, offering a balance of electrochemical stability and transport properties. The study hypothesizes that a specific concentration of CH3COONa in CH3COOK will yield an electrolyte with a wider ESW and improved ionic conductivity compared to diluted aqueous solutions. It is predicted that the 7N20K electrolyte will exhibit a wider ESW and improved ionic conductivity. The study also hypothesizes that a carbon-coated LiTi2(PO4)3 (CLTP) electrode will demonstrate reversible Na+ ion insertion/de-insertion in the 7N20K electrolyte, with good capacity retention and charge efficiency. These hypotheses are tested by measuring the thermal, rheological, transport, and electrochemical properties of the electrolyte solutions. The study differs from prior work by focusing on a binary acetate salt system, which is cost-effective and environmentally friendly, as a WISE electrolyte and testing its performance in a sodium-ion battery.

Methodological Details
The study employed an empirical approach to investigate the properties of aqueous acetate salt solutions. Four electrolyte solutions were prepared by dissolving NaAc (99%, Alfa Aesar) and KAc (99%, Alfa Aesar) in Milli-Q water. The KAc concentration was kept constant at 20 mol kg-1, while the NaAc concentration varied: 1 mol kg-1 NaAc with 20 mol kg-1 KAc (1N20K), 2.5 mol kg-1 NaAc with 20 mol kg-1 KAc (2.5N20K), 5 mol kg-1 NaAc with 20 mol kg-1 KAc (5N20K), and 7 mol kg-1 NaAc with 20 mol kg-1 KAc (7N20K). A 1 M NaAc solution was also prepared for comparison. Carbon-coated LiTi2(PO4)3 (CLTP) was synthesized via a one-pot sol-gel route. The CLTP was synthesized by dissolving NH4H2(PO4)3, Ti(OC4H9)4, CH3COOLi·2H2O, and C6H12O6 in ethanol, followed by stirring, drying, and calcination at 800 °C under argon. Pristine LiTi2(PO4)3 (LTP) was synthesized using the same route without C6H12O6. Viscosity measurements were conducted using an MCR Rheometer 102 (Anton Paar) with a parallel plate setup, shear rates from 10-300 s-1, and temperatures of 10°C, 20°C, 30°C, and 40°C. Thermal analysis was performed using Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) with a temperature range from -120°C to 90°C and Thermal Gravimetric Analysis (TGA). Conductivity measurements were performed using Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy (EIS) with a dip probe cell in a frequency range of 1 Hz to 200 kHz. The ESW was estimated in flooded three-electrode cells using a glassy carbon working electrode, a platinum mesh counter electrode, and a double junction SCE reference electrode. Galvanostatic Charge-Discharge with Potential Limitation (GCPL) was used to investigate the performance of the NASICON/electrolyte interfaces. EIS measurements were conducted in a temperature range of 20°C to 70°C. The study did not mention preregistration or multiple-comparison corrections.

Procedures Architectures
The study investigated the impact of varying NaAc concentrations on the properties of 20 mol kg-1 CH3COOK solutions. The synthesis of carbon-coated LiTi2(PO4)3 (CLTP) involved a one-pot sol-gel method. The process began with dissolving NH4H2(PO4)3, Ti(OC4H9)4, CH3COOLi·2H2O, and C6H12O6 in ethanol. The mixture was stirred, then dried under vacuum at 100 °C, and calcined at 800 °C under argon. Pristine LiTi2(PO4)3 (LTP) was synthesized similarly, but without C6H12O6. The CLTP was then used as an electrode material in a sodium-ion battery. The electrochemical measurements were conducted in a flooded three-electrode cell configuration. The ESW was determined using linear sweep voltammetry (LSV), with a threshold of 0.1 mA cm-2 on a glassy carbon electrode. Galvanostatic Charge-Discharge with Potential Limitation (GCPL) was used to evaluate the performance of the CLTP electrode in the 7N20K electrolyte. EIS measurements were performed to analyze the electrode/electrolyte interface kinetics. The study employed a variety of analytical techniques, including DSC, rheometry, EIS, and GCPL, to characterize the electrolyte and electrode materials. The novelty lies in the use of a binary acetate salt system as a WISE electrolyte and its application in a sodium-ion battery, along with the use of carbon-coated NASICON as an electrode material in this context. The study used standard laboratory equipment and techniques for materials synthesis and electrochemical characterization.

Key Results
The DSC analysis revealed that the glass transition temperature (Tg) increased with increasing salt concentration. The 7N20K sample showed a low liquidus temperature. Viscosity measurements classified the acetate salts as "structure-making salts." The ionic conductivity decreased with increasing salt concentration, but remained comparable to organic counterparts, with 7N20K exhibiting 21.2 mS cm-1 at 25°C. Electrochemical measurements showed the ESW increased with increasing CH3COONa concentration. The CLTP electrode in the 7N20K electrolyte showed an initial anodic capacity of 85 mAh g-1, an average charge efficiency of 96% at low current, and 90% capacity retention after 60 cycles. At 1C, the CLTP provided an average anodic specific capacity of 68 mAh g-1 with a 99.0% charge efficiency. The activation energy for the charge transfer process at the CLTP/7N20K interface was 0.12 eV. The diffusion coefficient was around 10-13 cm2 s-1 at room temperature. The 7N20K electrolyte exhibited an ESW of up to 3 V. The first cycle cathodic and anodic capacities in the 7N20K electrolyte were 104 and 84 mAh g-1, respectively, with an 80% charge efficiency. In the diluted solution, the values decreased to 96 and 36 mAh g-1, respectively, with a 40% efficiency. The molar conductivity at 25°C for the 7N20K solution was 52.90 ohm-1 cm2 mol-1. The study did not provide any baseline or SOTA comparisons with absolute/relative deltas.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the binary acetate salt system can be successfully employed as a WISE electrolyte for sodium-ion batteries. The increased Tg with concentration indicates a transition from a salt-in-water to a water-in-salt behavior. The good ionic conductivity and broad ESW of the 7N20K electrolyte, coupled with the performance of the CLTP electrode, support the potential of this system for energy storage applications. The low activation energy for charge transfer at the CLTP/7N20K interface suggests fast kinetics. The study implies that the strong interactions between ions and water molecules in the concentrated electrolyte contribute to the formation of water-salt structures, which enhance the ESW. The results demonstrate the possibility of designing electrode interfaces for the successful development of alkaline ion rechargeable batteries using the water-in-salt approach.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's ESW measurements were conducted using a small surface area and a highly electrocatalytic electrode in a flooded cell, which may lead to an overestimation of the decomposition limits. The study did not report the random seed used for any of the experiments. The study did not report the demographics of the materials. The study does not provide a detailed discussion of the potential degradation mechanisms of the electrolyte or the electrode materials during cycling. The study does not provide a detailed comparison with other WISE electrolytes, limiting the assessment of the relative performance of the binary acetate system. The study does not address the long-term cycling stability of the battery cells. The study does not discuss the potential environmental impact of the acetate salts.

Claims
[{"description": "The 7N20K electrolyte, comprising 7 mol kg-1 CH3COONa and 20 mol kg-1 CH3COOK, exhibits a conductivity of 21.2 mS cm-1 at 25°C.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports a conductivity value of 21.2 mS cm-1 at 25°C for the 7N20K electrolyte (Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This conductivity value is comparable to that of organic electrolytes, suggesting the potential for efficient ion transport in the 7N20K electrolyte."}, {"description": "The electrochemical stability window (ESW) of the 7N20K electrolyte extends up to 3 V.", "supporting_evidence": "The abstract mentions that the 7N20K solution shows a stability window up to 3 V.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This expanded ESW indicates that the 7N20K electrolyte can be used with a wider range of electrode materials, enhancing the energy density of the battery."}, {"description": "The carbon-coated LiTi2(PO4)3 (CLTP) electrode in the 7N20K electrolyte exhibits a first cycle anodic capacity of 85 mAh g-1.", "supporting_evidence": "The abstract states that the CLTP electrode demonstrated a first cycle anodic capacity of 85 mAh g-1.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This demonstrates the ability of the CLTP electrode to reversibly insert and de-insert Na+ ions in the 7N20K electrolyte."}, {"description": "The CLTP electrode in the 7N20K electrolyte achieves a 90% capacity retention after 60 cycles.", "supporting_evidence": "The abstract reports a 90% capacity retention after 60 cycles.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates good cycling stability of the CLTP electrode in the 7N20K electrolyte, suggesting the potential for long-term battery operation."}, {"description": "The activation energy for the charge transfer process at the CLTP/7N20K interface is 0.12 eV.", "supporting_evidence": "The study mentions a low activation energy of 0.12 eV for the charge transfer process (Figure 9).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This low activation energy suggests good kinetic properties at the interface, which is crucial for high-rate performance of the battery."}]

Data Code Availability
Supporting Information is available, including shear stress vs shear rate curves, XRPD patterns, SEM images, and thermal analysis for the NASICONs, and additional electrochemical characterization of the NASICONs in the organic electrolytes.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study does not include any ablation studies or sensitivity analyses. The study does not include any information on the stability of the results.

Ethical Considerations
The study did not explicitly mention any ethical considerations. The study does not mention any risks, mitigations, approvals, privacy/consent, or dual use.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1 presents DSC curves showing the glass transition temperature (Tg) shifting to higher temperatures with increasing salt concentration. Figure 2a shows the dependence of ionic conductivity on temperature, and Figure 2b shows the ionic conductivity decreasing with increasing electrolyte concentration. Figure 3a shows the viscosity measurements vs. the temperatures, which follow an Arrhenius behavior for all the electrolyte samples, while Figure 3b shows the evolution of viscosity as a function of temperature. Figure 4a shows the molar/conductivities vs. the fluidity at different temperatures, and Figure 4b shows the Kohlrausch's law for the 7N20K solution. Figure 5 shows the linear sweep voltammetry (LSV) profiles vs standard hydrogen electrode (SHE) for the electrolyte samples. Figure 7a and 7b show the potential profiles and the performances in the WISE electrolyte. Figure 8 shows the EIS spectra. Figure 9 shows the Arrhenius plot of the charge transfer resistance. Table 2 reports the molar conductivities, activation energies, ionic conductivities, T and Tg values. These figures and tables are critical for understanding the thermal, rheological, transport, and electrochemical properties of the electrolyte solutions and the performance of the CLTP electrode.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the demonstration of a binary acetate salt system as a water-in-salt electrolyte for sodium-ion batteries, offering a cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternative to fluorinated salts. (2) The strongest evidence is the performance of the 7N20K electrolyte, which exhibited a conductivity of 21.2 mS cm-1 at 25°C, an ESW of up to 3 V, and a CLTP electrode with a first cycle anodic capacity of 85 mAh g-1, an average charge efficiency of 96%, and 90% capacity retention after 60 cycles. (3) The primary limitation is the use of a small surface area and highly electrocatalytic electrode in a flooded cell for ESW measurements, which may lead to an overestimation of the decomposition limits. A forward path would be to conduct a more detailed comparison with other WISE electrolytes and to investigate the long-term cycling stability and degradation mechanisms of the battery cells.