Executive Summary
This study investigates the mechanism by which tumor-expressed PD-L1 (tPD-L1) promotes lung metastasis. The authors found that tPD-L1 does not directly protect tumor cells from cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) killing. Instead, tPD-L1 interacts with myeloid cell-expressed PD-1 (mPD-1) to suppress type I interferon (IFN-I) signaling, which in turn reduces the expression of chemokines Cxcl9 and Cxcl10. This ultimately impairs CTL recruitment to lung metastases, promoting tumor growth. The study used in vitro CTL-tumor interaction systems and in vivo experimental metastasis models with 4T1 and CT26 tumor cell lines. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was employed to analyze the transcriptomic changes in lung myeloid cells. Key findings include that loss of tPD-L1 in tumor cells significantly decreases lung metastasis in a CTL-dependent manner, and that the tPD-L1/mPD-1/IFN-I/STAT1/Cxcl9/10 axis controls CTL tumor infiltration in lung metastasis. The study also demonstrates the relevance of these findings in human patients, showing a correlation between IFN-I response in myeloid cells and patient response to PD-1 blockade immunotherapy. The novelty lies in identifying mPD-1 as the key mediator of tPD-L1's immunosuppressive effects in the metastatic niche. This work is significant because it elucidates a novel mechanism of immune evasion in lung metastasis, potentially informing the development of more effective immunotherapies.

Research Context
The efficacy of PD-1/L1 immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) immunotherapy is well-established, but its mechanisms, particularly in metastatic settings, are not fully understood. Prior research has focused on the direct interaction between tPD-L1 and CTL PD-1. However, emerging data suggests that the response of CTLs to PD-1/L1 blockade may depend on tumor anatomic sites and occur principally in other sites, rather than the primary tumor site. Previous studies have highlighted the importance of PD-1 expression in other cell populations, including myeloid cells, in tumor immune evasion. This study addresses the gap in understanding how tPD-L1, expressed by tumor cells, connects to CTL suppression and promotes lung metastasis. The work builds upon the understanding of the PD-1/L1 pathway and its role in immune evasion, specifically investigating the role of mPD-1 in the metastatic niche.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is: How does tPD-L1 promote lung metastasis? The primary hypothesis is that tPD-L1, expressed by tumor cells, engages mPD-1 to suppress type I IFN signaling, which then impairs CTL recruitment to lung metastases, promoting tumor growth. Alternative hypotheses could include that tPD-L1 directly protects tumor cells from CTL killing or that tPD-L1 promotes metastasis through mechanisms other than CTL suppression. The study tests this hypothesis by examining the effect of tPD-L1 on CTL activity in vitro and in vivo, analyzing the role of myeloid cells, and investigating the downstream signaling pathways involved. The study differs from prior work by focusing on the role of mPD-1 in the metastatic niche and its impact on CTL recruitment, rather than the direct interaction between tPD-L1 and CTLs. The study predicts that in the absence of tPD-L1, there will be increased CTL infiltration in the lung metastatic site, and increased IFN-I signaling in myeloid cells. The study also predicts that the depletion of myeloid cells will diminish tPD-L1 function in promoting tumor growth in the lungs.

Methodological Details
The study employed both in vitro and in vivo experimental approaches. In vitro experiments utilized a CTL-tumor interaction system with 2/20 CTLs, which are tumor-specific and sensitive to PD-1 mediated inhibition, and 4T1 and CT26 tumor cell lines. The 4T1 and CT26 cell lines were genetically modified to knock out PD-L1 (Cd274). In vivo experiments used syngeneic mice to establish orthotopic and experimental metastasis models. For experimental metastasis, tumor cells were injected into the lateral tail vein. Lung metastasis was analyzed by harvesting lungs, inflating with an India ink solution, and quantifying as previously described. MHC class I antigen presentation was genetically ablated, and CD8+ T cells were depleted using antibodies. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) was performed on CD45+ leukocytes from 4T1 WT and PD-L1-KO colonized lungs. Flow cytometry was used to analyze cell populations and protein expression. Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on lungs colonized by WT and PD-L1-deficient 4T1 cells. Statistical analyses were conducted using Prism8 (Graphpad), with p-values calculated by a two-tailed Student's t-test. Significance between survival groups was computed by two-sided log-rank test. Bulk RNA sequencing data was analyzed using STAR for alignment, HTSeq for read quantification, and DESeq2 for differential expression analysis. GSEA, GO, and PCA analysis were performed. scRNA-seq libraries were generated using the Chromium Single Cell 3' Reagent Kit v3 (10x Genomics) and sequenced on Illumina NextSeq 500 platform. Data analysis was performed using Cell Ranger and Seurat. The study also analyzed a human patient dataset of metastatic basal cell carcinoma patients who underwent single-cell sequencing before and after PD-1 blockade. Ethical considerations included the use of cell lines obtained from ATCC and the generation of gene knockout cell lines using CRISPR lentivirus.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized several key procedures and architectures. Gene knockout cell lines were generated using CRISPR lentivirus. HEK293FT cells were co-transfected with pCMV-VSV-G, psPAX2, and lentiCRISPRv2 plasmids to produce the lentivirus. Tumor cells were transduced with the lentivirus, and cells were selected with puromycin. In vivo tumor models included orthotopic tumors established by injection at the right second mammary gland (4T1) and subcutaneous tumors established by injection at the right flank (CT26). Experimental metastasis models involved injecting tumor cells into the lateral tail vein. For flow cytometry, samples were blocked in FACS Buffer containing mouse FcBlock. Antibodies and reagents are listed in Table S1. For co-culture cytotoxicity experiments, supernatant and cells were harvested and stained with APC-AnnexinV and propidium iodide (PI). For intracellular staining, samples were stained for surface antigens and viability, then cells were fixed and permeabilized using Cytofix/Cytoperm Plus kit. Samples were acquired on an FACSCalibur with CellQuestPro or LSRFortessa with BD Diva 8.01. All flow cytometry data analysis was conducted with FlowJo v10.6.0. Bulk RNA sequencing was performed on RNA extracted from lungs. RNA was sequenced by Novogene. Reads were aligned to the reference genome using STARv2.5. Reads were quantified using HTSeqv0.6.1. Rank-log transformed normalized counts from DESeq2 were used as inputs for GSEA, GO, and PCA analysis. scRNA-seq libraries were generated using the Chromium Single Cell 3' Reagent Kit v3 (10x Genomics) and sequenced on Illumina NextSeq 500 platform. Reads were mapped to mm10 Mouse Genome reference by STAR aligner in Cell Ranger 3.1.0 pipeline. Filtered counts data was loaded into Seurat. High quality cells were extracted for downstream analysis. Doublet clusters were manually identified and removed. Cells were clustered using the first fifty principal components, and clusters were annotated by comparison to pre-existing RNA-sequencing datasets using SingleR. Myeloid and T cells clusters were then subsetted and reclustered based off of top twenty principal components for further analysis.

Key Results
The study found that tPD-L1 does not directly protect tumor cells from CTL killing in vitro (Figure 1A). In vivo, loss of tPD-L1 did not affect primary tumor growth (Figure 2A, 2E). However, loss of tPD-L1 significantly decreased lung metastasis (Figure 2F). Increased infiltration of CD3+ cells was observed in the lungs after loss of tPD-L1 (Figure 3A). The study showed that tPD-L1 does not enhance DTC colonization efficiency (Figure 3B). PD-L1-deficient and competent 4T1 metastasized equally in RAGII-KO mice (Figure 3C), indicating that tPD-L1 requires a functioning adaptive immune system to promote lung metastasis. Genetic ablation of MHC class I antigen presentation, as well as antibody-mediated depletion of CD8+ T cells, revealed that tPD-L1 drove metastasis by suppressing killing by CTLs (Figure 2F, 3D). Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that tPD-L1 loss drives transcriptional changes in myeloid cells, not CTLs, in the metastatic niche (Figure 4A-B). Myeloid cell surface PD-1 expression was enhanced following tPD-L1 loss (Figure 6A-B). Engagement with 4T1 tPD-L1 enhanced SHP-2 activation and decreased pSTAT1 levels in RAW cells (Figure 6D-F). Disruption of RAW PD-1 expression or 4T1 PD-L1 expression enhanced IFNβ production (Figure 6J). Depletion of myeloid cells diminished tPD-L1 function in promoting tumor growth in the lungs (Figure 6K-L). In human patients, myeloid cell PHATE analysis revealed differentiation restriction that was released following PD-1 blockade, leading to enhanced interferon signaling, antigen presentation, and CTL-recruiting chemokine expression (Figure 7A-C).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that tPD-L1 promotes lung metastasis by engaging mPD-1, which suppresses type I IFN signaling and impairs CTL recruitment. This mechanism highlights a novel role for mPD-1 in the metastatic niche, distinct from the direct interaction between tPD-L1 and CTLs. The study uncouples the role of tPD-L1 at the metastatic site. The results support the hypothesis that the PD-1/L1 axis functions as a negative feedback circuit for type I interferon signaling. The study's findings have implications for understanding the mechanisms of immune evasion in the metastatic setting and may inform the development of more effective immunotherapies. The study also suggests that the low response rates in interferon alpha therapies may be due to compensatory PD-1/L1 upregulation. The study determines that type I interferon signaling pathway is essential for myeloid cell function in CTL recruitment to the lung metastasis niche.

Contradictions Limitations
The study focuses exclusively on lung metastases, which may have a uniquely inflamed microenvironment. The study does not investigate the role of other immune cell types besides myeloid cells and CTLs. The study uses only 4T1 and CT26 cell lines, which may limit the generalizability of the findings to other tumor types. The study does not address the specific mechanisms by which mPD-1 suppresses type I IFN signaling. The study's conclusions are based on correlational evidence, and further studies are needed to establish causality. The study's findings are limited to the experimental metastasis model and may not fully reflect the complexities of spontaneous metastasis. The study's analysis of human patient data is based on a pre-existing dataset and may be subject to limitations of the original study design. The study does not provide information on the random seed used for the analysis.

Claims
[{"description": "tPD-L1 does not directly protect tumor cells from CTL killing in vitro.", "supporting_evidence": "In vitro CTL-tumor interaction experiments showed that tPD-L1 did not confer a survival advantage to tumor cells when encountering antigen-specific effector CTLs (Figure 1A).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This finding refutes the hypothesis that tPD-L1 directly protects tumor cells from CTL killing, suggesting an alternative mechanism of immune evasion."}, {"description": "Loss of tPD-L1 does not affect primary tumor growth but significantly decreases lung metastasis in vivo.", "supporting_evidence": "Orthotopic injection of PD-L1 WT and PD-L1 KO 4T1 cells showed no difference in primary tumor growth (Figure 2A, S2B). However, loss of tPD-L1 significantly decreased lung metastasis (Figure 2F).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This indicates that tPD-L1 promotes metastasis independent of primary tumor growth, suggesting that tPD-L1's role is primarily in the metastatic niche."}, {"description": "tPD-L1 promotes lung metastasis by suppressing CTL recruitment.", "supporting_evidence": "Increased infiltration of CD3+ cells (CTLs) was observed in the lungs after loss of tPD-L1 (Figure 3A). Genetic ablation of MHC class I antigen presentation, as well as antibody-mediated depletion of CD8+ T cells, revealed that tPD-L1 drove metastasis by suppressing killing by CTLs (Figure 2F, 3D).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that tPD-L1 facilitates metastasis by preventing CTLs from reaching and eliminating metastatic tumor cells."}, {"description": "tPD-L1 engages mPD-1 to suppress type I IFN signaling in myeloid cells.", "supporting_evidence": "Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed that tPD-L1 loss drives transcriptional changes in myeloid cells, not CTLs, in the metastatic niche (Figure 4A-B). Myeloid cell surface PD-1 expression was enhanced following tPD-L1 loss (Figure 6A-B). Engagement with 4T1 tPD-L1 enhanced SHP-2 activation and decreased pSTAT1 levels in RAW cells (Figure 6D-F).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This suggests that tPD-L1's effect on CTL recruitment is mediated by its interaction with mPD-1, which alters the myeloid cell microenvironment."}, {"description": "The tPD-L1/mPD-1/IFN-I/STAT1/Cxcl9/10 axis controls CTL tumor infiltration in lung metastasis.", "supporting_evidence": "The study's findings determined that the tPD-L1/mPD-1/IFN-I/STAT1/Cxcl9/10 axis controls CTL tumor infiltration in lung metastasis to promote lung metastasis.", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This highlights a specific pathway through which tPD-L1 exerts its effects on CTL recruitment and metastasis."}, {"description": "Depletion of myeloid cells diminishes tPD-L1 function in promoting tumor growth in the lungs.", "supporting_evidence": "Depletion of myeloid cells by clodronate liposomes in tumor-bearing mice diminished tPD-L1 function in promoting tumor growth in the lungs (Figure 6K-L).", "contradicting_evidence": "", "implications": "This finding provides functional evidence that myeloid cells are critical mediators of tPD-L1's pro-metastatic effects."}]

Data Code Availability
Data from the BMS038 was accessed from authors' processed files (https://github.com/riazn/bms038_analysis). Previously published dataset of response following PD-1 treatment (PRJEB23709) was accessed from EMBL.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study includes several robustness checks. Genetic ablation of MHC class I antigen presentation and antibody-mediated depletion of CD8+ T cells were used to confirm that tPD-L1 drove metastasis by suppressing killing by CTLs. Myeloid cells were depleted by clodronate liposomes to demonstrate their role in mediating tPD-L1's pro-metastatic effects.

Ethical Considerations
The study used cell lines obtained from ATCC. The study was approved by the relevant Institutional Review Board (IRB). The study utilized animal models. The study did not explicitly address privacy or informed consent.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1A demonstrates that tPD-L1 does not directly protect tumor cells from CTL killing in vitro. Figure 2A, 2E, and 2F show the effect of tPD-L1 on primary tumor growth and lung metastasis. Figure 3A, 3B, 3C, and 3D show the effect of tPD-L1 on CTL infiltration and the role of the adaptive immune system in metastasis. Figure 6A-B, 6D-F, 6J, and 6K-L show the effect of tPD-L1 on mPD-1 and downstream signaling. Figure 7A-C shows the relevance of the findings in human patients. These figures are critical for understanding the key findings and the mechanisms underlying tPD-L1's role in metastasis.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the identification of mPD-1 as a key mediator of tPD-L1's immunosuppressive effects in the metastatic niche, which promotes lung metastasis by suppressing CTL recruitment. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the in vivo experiments demonstrating that loss of tPD-L1 significantly decreases lung metastasis (Figure 2F), coupled with the finding that depletion of myeloid cells diminished tPD-L1 function in promoting tumor growth in the lungs (Figure 6K-L). (3) The primary limitation is the focus on lung metastases and the use of only two cell lines, which may limit the generalizability of the findings. Future work should investigate the mechanisms by which mPD-1 suppresses type I IFN signaling and explore the role of this pathway in other tumor types and metastatic sites.