Executive Summary
This paper introduces a novel machine learning force field (MLFF) approach for ranking candidate solid electrolyte interphase (SEI) structures in Li-ion batteries. The authors address the challenge of simulating the complex chemical structure of the SEI, which is crucial for battery performance but difficult to model due to its large length and time scales. They employ a QRNN model trained using multitask learning with multiple levels of theory (GFN1-xTB, PBE-D3, wB97X-D3BJ) and an additional dataset of general organic chemistry (SPICE) to broaden chemical applicability. The study uses active learning with enhanced reaction sampling via Artificial Force Induced Reactions (AFIR) and Nudged Elastic Band (NEB) on the QRNN potential energy surface to generate SEI candidate structures. These structures are then annealed using reactive QRNN molecular dynamics (MD) and ranked based on their predicted energy. The results show that the model can generate plausible rankings of SEI candidate structures, with P-F and Li-O bonds associated with more stable structures, while C-O and Li-F bonds are associated with less stable ones. The work demonstrates that multitask training with a QRNN model, combined with relevant chemical system sampling, enables the modeling of complex reactions characteristic of the SEI. The primary limitation is the limited experimental data for validation, and the authors suggest that future work should focus on comparing multiple electrolyte formulations and applying other model architectures.

Research Context
The development of next-generation batteries is limited by the incomplete understanding of the solid-electrolyte interphase (SEI), a complex passivating layer in Li-ion batteries. Existing methods, such as density functional theory (DFT), are computationally expensive for simulating the SEI’s large length and time scales. Traditional force fields lack the flexibility to model such complex systems. Prior work has used QRNN models to predict the properties of Li metal and organic liquids. This study builds on these approaches by developing an MLFF that can model the interactions of materials within the SEI, enabling the ranking of candidate structures. The novelty lies in the application of multitask learning with a QRNN model, combined with enhanced sampling techniques, to simulate the complex reactions within the SEI.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to rank candidate SEI structures using a machine learning force field. The study hypothesizes that a QRNN model trained with multitask learning, incorporating data from various levels of theory and a general organic chemistry dataset, can accurately predict the energies of SEI structures and provide a plausible ranking. The alternative hypothesis is that the model's accuracy will be insufficient to differentiate between SEI structures, or that the computational cost will be prohibitive. The study aims to demonstrate that the developed MLFF can generate stable dynamics and rank SEI candidates based on their predicted energy, which can then be used to analyze the effects of different chemical bonds on the stability of the SEI. This approach differs from previous work by using enhanced reaction sampling techniques (AFIR and NEB) and incorporating a general organic chemistry dataset to broaden the model's applicability.

Methodological Details
The study employed a QRNN model for predicting the energies of SEI structures. The model was trained using multitask learning with four output heads: GFN1-xTB, PBE-D3, wB97X-D3BJ/def2-TZVPD, and a SPICE level of theory wB97X-D3BJ/def2-TZVPPD. The GFN1-xTB and SPICE output heads were used to shape the latent space of the model during training. The training data included both periodic and cluster geometries. Active learning was used with multiple rounds of data generation. Enhanced reaction sampling was performed using AFIR and NEB on the QRNN potential energy surface. The SPICE dataset, consisting of elements H, Li, C, O, F, and P, was added to the training data. The width of the hidden layers in the neural networks was doubled to increase model capacity. A higher-priority dataset composed only of the periodic and cluster surface reaction subset of the dataset was used, with each batch sampled half from this priority data and half from the rest of the dataset. The Adamax optimizer with decoupled weight decay was used with a learning rate of 2e-3. A validation set of 1% of the data was used. Hidden layers of size 256, 224, and 192 were used. The batch size was 64. A weight decay of 1e-3 was used. The final model was an exponential moving average of the training parameters, averaging every 10 batches with alpha = 0.001. Initial SEI candidate structures were generated using the “SEI Simulator” in the Schrodinger suite, using OPLS4 molecular dynamics with reaction templates applied at intervals. Four sets of candidates with different levels of added Li were created. The candidate structures were then annealed using reactive QRNN model with NPT MD at 400 K and 1000 atm for 100 ps each. The candidates were ranked by calculating the mean potential energy of each structure over an MD trajectory of 20 ps length at ambient conditions of 300 K and 1 atm. Statistical analysis of the bonding in SEI candidate structures was performed using Schrodinger Materials Science Suite.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized a QRNN model, trained using multitask learning. The model architecture consisted of multiple output heads, each corresponding to a different level of theory: GFN1-xTB, PBE-D3, wB97X-D3BJ/def2-TZVPD, and wB97X-D3BJ/def2-TZVPPD (SPICE). The model used hidden layers of size 256, 224, and 192. The Adamax optimizer was used with a learning rate of 2e-3 and a weight decay of 1e-3. The model was trained with a batch size of 64. The QRNN model was used to generate SEI candidate structures using the “SEI Simulator” in the Schrodinger suite, which employs OPLS4 molecular dynamics with reaction templates. The SEI simulator starts with a 1M solution of EC and LiPF6. The generated structures were then annealed using reactive QRNN MD at 400 K and 1000 atm for 100 ps. The models were trained using a loss function consisting of energy and atomic force mean squared error for each level of theory in each training batch, along with charge mean squared error in each training batch. The model used an exponential moving average of the training parameters, averaging every 10 batches with alpha = 0.001. The model was implemented using the Schrodinger Materials Science Suite and Psi4 v1.6. Periodic DFT calculations were performed using Quantum Espresso. Gas-phase wB97X-D3BJ/def2-TZVPD DFT was performed using Psi4 v1.6.

Key Results
The study generated a ranking of SEI candidate structures using the developed QRNN model. The model was validated against the best available calculations for surface reaction energy barriers. The lowest-energy SEI candidate structure out of the most lithiated subgroup (33 added Li atoms) as predicted by wB97X-D3BJ output head was considered the “best” candidate. Statistical analysis of the bonding in SEI candidate structures revealed that P-F and Li-O bonds are associated with more stable structures, while C-O and Li-F bonds are associated with less stable ones. The study found that the addition of the SPICE dataset did not significantly increase the PBE-head validation RMSE, and only an 8% increase in hybrid-head RMSE, indicating that the increased scope of the data did not heavily impact model capacity. Energy and gradient RMSEs from the final validation of training are shown in the paper, in kcal/mol for energies and kcal/mol/Å for gradients. The study did not report specific RMSE values.

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that the developed MLFF can be used to generate plausible rankings of SEI candidate structures, providing insights into the relationship between chemical bonding and the stability of the SEI. The association of P-F and Li-O bonds with more stable structures, and C-O and Li-F bonds with less stable ones, provides a basis for understanding the factors that influence SEI formation and stability. The study demonstrates the potential of multitask learning and enhanced sampling techniques in modeling complex chemical systems. The results imply that the latent space of the MLFF models contains unused capacity that can be applied to broadening chemical applicability. The work provides a foundation for future studies that can compare multiple electrolyte formulations and calculate properties such as Li+ diffusivity and mechanical properties.

Contradictions Limitations
The primary limitation of this study is the limited experimental data available for validating the model. The lack of experimental data for properties like density, diffusivity, viscosity, and elastic modulus of the SEI makes it difficult to directly compare the model's predictions with experimental results. The study acknowledges that the current model's scope is still limited compared to what is required to fully capture SEI properties. The study also notes that the choice of cluster extraction method for non-periodic systems is not unique. The study does not report the specific RMSE values for the validation set. The study does not provide details on the random seed used for the MD simulations.

Claims
[{"description": "The QRNN model, trained with multitask learning, can generate plausible rankings of SEI candidate structures.", "supporting_evidence": "The study ranked SEI candidate structures based on predicted energy, and the model was validated against the best available calculations for surface reaction energy barriers. The lowest-energy SEI candidate structure was considered the “best” candidate.", "contradicting_evidence": "The lack of experimental data for validation limits the ability to definitively confirm the accuracy of the rankings.", "implications": "This supports the use of MLFFs for understanding and predicting the properties of SEI structures, which can inform the design of improved Li-ion batteries."}, {"description": "P-F and Li-O bonds are associated with more stable SEI structures, while C-O and Li-F bonds are associated with less stable ones.", "supporting_evidence": "Statistical analysis of the bonding in SEI candidate structures revealed this correlation (Figure 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide specific quantitative evidence for the strength of these correlations.", "implications": "This provides insights into the chemical factors that influence SEI stability and can guide the design of electrolyte formulations that promote the formation of more stable SEIs."}, {"description": "Adding the SPICE dataset did not significantly increase the PBE-head validation RMSE and only slightly increased the hybrid-head RMSE.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports an 8% increase in hybrid-head RMSE after adding the SPICE dataset.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide the exact RMSE values.", "implications": "This suggests that the model's capacity can be expanded to include more diverse chemical systems without a significant loss in accuracy, which is important for the model's overall applicability."}, {"description": "Multitask training with a QRNN model, combined with sampling of relevant chemical systems, allows a machine learning force field to model the complex reactions characteristic of an SEI.", "supporting_evidence": "The study successfully generated SEI candidates and analyzed their stability based on the model's predictions.", "contradicting_evidence": "The lack of experimental validation limits the certainty of this claim.", "implications": "This demonstrates the potential of MLFFs for simulating complex chemical systems and provides a basis for future studies to improve the accuracy and applicability of these models."}]

Data Code Availability
The list of SEI candidate structures (seed*.pdb) and energies (energies.csv), along with the original 1M LiPF6 in EC solution (initial_EC_1M_LiPF6.pdb) and plotting scripts (*.py), can be found at https: //figshare.com/s/e842ae88023902700e12.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study mentions that the model used a high level of weight decay (3e-3 per batch) to produce smoother energy surfaces, but this reduced the height of reaction barriers. A more conventional weight decay of 1e-3 was used for the final model. The study also mentions that the model was an exponential moving average of the training parameters.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not explicitly mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 4 shows bond counts with respect to total system energy for the most lithiated SEI candidate set (33 added Li+) using the wB97X-D3BJ model output. The x-axis represents the total system energy (zero = most stable), and the y-axis represents the counts of various bond types. The figure supports the claim that certain bond types are associated with more or less stable structures. Table 1 is mentioned in the text, but the details are not described.

Three Takeaways
(1) This study demonstrates the successful application of a multitask-trained QRNN model for ranking candidate SEI structures in Li-ion batteries, a complex chemical system. (2) The strongest evidence is the generation of plausible rankings of SEI candidates and the identification of correlations between bond types and the stability of the SEI, supported by the model's predictions and statistical analysis. (3) The primary limitation is the lack of experimental data for validation. Future work should focus on comparing multiple electrolyte formulations and applying other model architectures to further improve the accuracy and applicability of the model.