Executive Summary
ProNetView-ccRCC is a web-based interactive portal designed for exploring phosphopeptide co-expression networks derived from the Clinical Proteomics Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) study. The portal allows users to visualize and interact with a network of 3,614 genes and 30 functional pathway-enriched network modules. The primary goal is to provide a user-friendly interface for researchers to explore the complex relationships between phosphopeptides, genes, and clinical variables like tumor grade. The portal enables users to query for specific genes, visualize their connections within the network, and examine their associations with clinical phenotypes. Key features include a 3D network exploration interface, interactive querying capabilities, and integration with external tools like ProTrack. The development of ProNetView-ccRCC addresses the need for effective visual exploration tools for large-scale proteogenomic data, which are challenging to communicate due to their complex topologies. The portal is designed to facilitate hypothesis generation and improve understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying ccRCC. The main limitation is that the portal is specific to the CPTAC ccRCC dataset and does not include other cancer types or datasets. 

Research Context
The study addresses the challenge of visualizing and interpreting large-scale proteogenomic data, specifically co-expression networks derived from proteomics and phosphoproteomics data. These networks reveal regulatory relationships between proteins and post-transcriptional modifications, providing insights into cancer mechanisms. Existing network visualization tools are often limited in their interactive exploration capabilities and are not tailored for the specific needs of exploring CPTAC co-expression networks and associated meta-data. The work builds on the need for a centralized platform customized for CPTAC co-expression networks and associated meta-data. Prior tools primarily present networks as static 2D images, lacking the interactive exploration capabilities needed to fully understand the data. This work aims to overcome these limitations by providing an interactive web-based portal that allows for intuitive visual exploration, interpretation, and communication of gene/protein regulatory networks.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is how to effectively visualize and interact with large-scale proteogenomic networks to facilitate the understanding of cancer biology, specifically in ccRCC. The study does not explicitly state hypotheses, but it implicitly tests the usability and utility of the ProNetView-ccRCC portal. The portal is designed to enable users to explore the phosphopeptide co-expression network, query for specific genes, and examine their associations with clinical variables such as tumor grade. The study aims to provide a user-friendly interface that allows researchers to quickly identify relationships between genes, phosphopeptides, and pathways. The expected outcome is that users can easily navigate the network, identify key genes and pathways, and generate hypotheses for future studies. This approach differs from prior work by providing an interactive 3D network exploration environment, customized for CPTAC ccRCC data, and integrating with other analysis tools.

Methodological Details
The study focuses on the development and implementation of the ProNetView-ccRCC portal. The portal enables visual explorations of two network types: the phosphopeptide coexpression network of ccRCC tumors and 30 different network modules derived based on the topology of the overall network. The phosphopeptide co-expression network was derived from phospho-peptide level data of 103 ccRCC samples. The network characterizes the co-expression patterns among 20,976 phosphopeptides in ccRCC. Two genes are connected if at least two phosphopeptides mapping to the two genes are associated to each other. Network modules were derived by using Glay clustering algorithm. 30 modules containing at least 20 genes were identified. Pathway enrichment analysis was performed via Fisher Exact test. The portal utilizes the Three.js framework for 3D visualization, and network layouts were calculated using 3D layout algorithms within iCAVE. Client-side Javascript libraries such as D3.js, dataTables.js, and JQuery were used for interactive elements. Bootstrap v3.3.7 was used for styling. The portal is designed to run on all modern web browsers without requiring additional plugins. The study does not mention any specific ethical considerations or IRB approvals.

Procedures Architectures
ProNetView-ccRCC is a web-based portal built for interactive exploration of ccRCC proteogenomic networks. The portal's architecture is based on the Three.js framework for 3D network visualization, enabling users to rotate and zoom in/out of the network. The network layouts were calculated using 3D layout algorithms within iCAVE. The front-end utilizes client-side Javascript libraries, including D3.js, dataTables.js, and JQuery, for interactive elements. Bootstrap v3.3.7 is used for styling the web interface. The portal displays the overall ccRCC tumor phosphoproteomics co-expression network and links to functional network modules. Users can search for specific genes, which are highlighted in the network. The portal also allows users to explore module networks and their associated meta-data, including pathway enrichment analysis results. The portal integrates with the ProTrack tool for exploring multi-omics data through interactive heatmaps. The key novelty is the interactive 3D network exploration environment, customized for CPTAC ccRCC data, and the integration of network modules and associated meta-data within a single, user-friendly interface. The portal is designed to be accessible on any modern web browser without requiring plugins.

Key Results
ProNetView-ccRCC provides an interactive 3D exploration environment for the ccRCC phosphopeptide co-expression network. The portal allows users to query for specific genes and visualize their connections within the network. For example, by searching for the oncogene ERG, the corresponding node is highlighted in red, and the portal displays the genes whose phosphopeptides are directly connected to ERG. The association of ERG's corresponding phosphoprotein with tumor grade is reported (p-value: 0.003, FDR: 0.118). The portal also allows users to explore module networks and their associated meta-data. For example, the Angiogenesis enriched module network (module 26) is displayed, with node sizes proportional to the number of connections. Users can hover over a node to display the gene name and click on the node to display the associated gene-level meta-data. The portal also displays enriched pathways within each network module. For example, in module 18, users can view a table of enriched pathways, and clicking on a pathway name (e.g., Cell cycle) highlights the associated genes in the network. The portal is designed to facilitate the identification of relationships between genes, phosphopeptides, and pathways, and to provide a user-friendly interface for exploring the complex ccRCC proteogenomic data.

Interpretation Implications
The development of ProNetView-ccRCC provides a valuable tool for exploring the complex proteogenomic data of ccRCC. The interactive 3D environment facilitates the identification of relationships between genes, phosphopeptides, and clinical variables. The ability to query for specific genes and visualize their connections within the network allows researchers to quickly identify key players in the disease. The integration of pathway enrichment analysis provides context for understanding the biological functions of the identified genes. The portal's design supports the generation of hypotheses for future studies and improves the understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying ccRCC. The findings suggest that interactive visualization tools can significantly enhance the exploration and interpretation of large-scale proteogenomic data. The portal's utility lies in its ability to make complex data accessible and understandable to researchers with varying levels of computational expertise.

Contradictions Limitations
The study does not report any internal inconsistencies. The primary limitation is that the portal is specific to the CPTAC ccRCC dataset and may not be directly applicable to other cancer types or datasets. The study does not address the generalizability of the findings to other cancers or the potential for biases in the CPTAC data. The lack of information on the specific algorithms used for network construction and the absence of details on the training and validation of the network model are also limitations. The study does not provide information on the user interface's usability or the effectiveness of the portal in facilitating research. The study does not mention the random seed used in the network construction algorithm.

Claims
[{"description": "ProNetView-ccRCC provides an interactive 3D exploration environment for the ccRCC phosphopeptide co-expression network.", "supporting_evidence": "The portal uses the Three.js framework for 3D visualization, allowing users to rotate and zoom in/out of the network. The portal displays the overall ccRCC tumor phosphoproteomics co-expression network and links to functional network modules.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide evidence that the 3D environment is superior to 2D representations in terms of usability or information gain.", "implications": "The 3D environment potentially enhances the exploration of the network, but its effectiveness needs to be evaluated through user studies."}, {"description": "The portal allows users to query for specific genes and visualize their connections within the network.", "supporting_evidence": "Users can search for specific genes, which are highlighted in the network. For example, searching for ERG highlights the corresponding node and displays connected genes. The association of ERG with tumor grade is reported (p-value: 0.003, FDR: 0.118).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide quantitative metrics on the efficiency or accuracy of the gene search functionality.", "implications": "The gene search functionality facilitates the identification of key genes and their relationships within the network."}, {"description": "ProNetView-ccRCC integrates with the ProTrack tool for exploring ccRCC multi-omics data through interactive heatmaps.", "supporting_evidence": "Users can click on the Heatmap link, which directs them to ProTrack tool.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide any details on how the integration with ProTrack is implemented or the benefits it provides.", "implications": "The integration with ProTrack enhances the exploration of ccRCC multi-omics data."}, {"description": "ProNetView-ccRCC displays enriched pathways within each network module.", "supporting_evidence": "Users can view a table of enriched pathways, and clicking on a pathway name highlights the associated genes in the network. For example, in module 18, users can view a table of enriched pathways, and clicking on a pathway name (e.g., Cell cycle) highlights the associated genes in the network.", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide details on the specific pathway enrichment analysis methods used.", "implications": "The pathway enrichment analysis provides context for understanding the biological functions of the identified genes."}]

Data Code Availability
The portal is an open-access freely available resource at http://ccrcc.cptac-network-view.org/.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 1A displays the global ccRCC tumor phosphoproteomics co-expression network. Figure 1B shows functional network modules. Figure 1C shows the oncogene ERG highlighted in the network. Figure 2A displays a snapshot of the Angiogenesis enriched module network. Figure 2B shows the gene-level meta-data. Figure 2C shows a query for genes. Figure 2D shows genes highlighted in the network. Figure 3A displays the interactive table listing the enriched pathways. Figure 3B displays the genes associated with a certain pathway highlighted in the network. These figures are critical for understanding the portal's functionality and the interactive exploration capabilities. They demonstrate how users can navigate the network, query for genes, and visualize the associated meta-data.

Three Takeaways
(1) ProNetView-ccRCC is a web-based portal that provides an interactive 3D exploration environment for the ccRCC phosphopeptide co-expression network, enabling researchers to visualize and interact with complex proteogenomic data. (2) The portal allows users to query for specific genes and visualize their connections within the network, with the association of ERG's corresponding phosphoprotein with tumor grade reported (p-value: 0.003, FDR: 0.118), facilitating the identification of key players in the disease. (3) The primary limitation is that the portal is specific to the CPTAC ccRCC dataset, and further research is needed to evaluate the portal's usability and effectiveness in facilitating research and to extend its application to other cancer types and datasets.