Executive Summary
This paper introduces SPOT-Contact-Single, a novel method for predicting protein contact maps using a Transformer language model, specifically ESM-1b, without relying on evolutionary information. The motivation stems from the limitations of existing methods that depend on multiple sequence alignment (MSA), which are ineffective for proteins lacking sufficient homologous sequences. SPOT-Contact-Single utilizes ESM-1b's attention maps, along with one-hot encoding and outputs from SPOT-1D-Single, as input to an ensemble of residual neural networks. The method was trained on a large dataset of 34,691 proteins and evaluated on independent test sets, including CASP14-FM and SPOT-2018. The primary findings indicate that SPOT-Contact-Single significantly improves contact map prediction, especially for proteins with few or no homologs. On the CASP14-FM dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single achieved a 15% improvement in F1-score compared to the single-sequence-based predictor SSCpred. Furthermore, on the SPOT-2018 dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single outperformed evolutionary-profile-based methods, TrRosetta and SPOT-Contact, by 48.7% and 48.5% in F1-score, respectively, on proteins with no homologs (Neff=1). The novelty lies in leveraging the attention maps from a pre-trained language model (ESM-1b) to enhance single-sequence-based contact map prediction. This approach offers a faster and reasonably accurate alternative to evolution-based methods, making it suitable for large-scale prediction. A key limitation is the inability to directly predict contact maps for proteins with more than 1024 amino acids due to the ESM-1b input constraint.

Research Context
Existing methods for protein contact map prediction, such as CCMpred, Gremlin, and SPOT-Contact, often rely on MSA and homology-based profile information. However, these methods suffer when dealing with proteins that have few or no homologs. SSCpred, a single-sequence-based method, offers an alternative but performs less effectively than MSA-based techniques for proteins with more effective homologs. The gap addressed by this work is the need for a method that accurately predicts contact maps for proteins lacking sufficient homologous information. This research builds upon the advancements in unsupervised deep learning, specifically the use of language models like ESM-1b, which can extract features from protein sequences. The study aims to improve upon single-sequence-based methods by incorporating features derived from ESM-1b's attention maps, thereby enhancing the accuracy of contact map prediction for proteins with limited or no homologs.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether incorporating features from a pre-trained language model (ESM-1b) can improve the accuracy of single-sequence-based protein contact map prediction, particularly for proteins with few or no homologs. The primary hypothesis is that using ESM-1b's attention maps as input features, in conjunction with one-hot encoding and SPOT-1D-Single outputs, will outperform existing single-sequence-based methods like SSCpred and MSA-based predictors like TrRosetta and SPOT-Contact, especially for proteins with a low effective number of homologous proteins (Neff). The alternative hypothesis is that the performance gain from ESM-1b features will be marginal or that the improvement will not be significant compared to existing methods. The study also explores whether an ensemble of models trained with different feature combinations and training strategies (direct contact-map prediction vs. distogram-based prediction) can further enhance performance. The outcomes supporting the hypothesis would be higher F1-scores, MCC, precision, and AUC values compared to baseline methods, particularly on datasets of proteins with low Neff values. Conversely, if the performance is comparable or worse than existing methods, the hypothesis would be refuted.

Methodological Details
The study employed a deep learning approach to predict protein contact maps. The study design involved training and evaluating an ensemble of residual neural networks (ResNet12 architecture). The training dataset was derived from ProteinNet, consisting of 34,691 proteins after filtering for sequence identity (95% cut-off) and length (≤500 amino acids). An 88 protein validation set was also created. Three independent test sets were used: SPOT-2018 (669 proteins), Neff1-2018 (46 proteins with Neff=1), and CASP14-FM (15 proteins). The input features included one-hot encoding of amino acids, outputs from SPOT-1D-Single (SS3, SS8, ASA, HSE, and torsion angles), and attention maps from ESM-1b. The attention maps were processed using symmetrization and average product corrections (APC). The performance evaluation used standard CASP definitions, considering residues in contact if the inter-residue distance was ≤ 8.0 Å. Metrics included F1-score, MCC, sensitivity, AUC, and ROC for short-, medium-, and long-range contacts. The neural network architecture was based on ResNet12, with convolutional layers of channel size 64 and kernel size 3. Six models were trained with different feature combinations and training strategies (direct contact-map prediction and distogram-based prediction). The Adam optimizer was used with a learning rate of 0.001 and a batch size of 1. Early stopping was implemented to prevent overfitting. The HHblits tool was used to compare Hidden Markov Models for dataset filtering and homology assessment. No preregistration was mentioned, and multiple-comparison corrections were not explicitly stated.

Procedures Architectures
The study utilized an ensemble of ResNet12 architectures for protein contact map prediction. The ResNet12 architecture employed convolutional layers with a channel size of 64 and a kernel size of 3. Six models were trained with different input feature combinations, as detailed in Table 1. The input features included one-hot encoding, SPOT-1D-Single outputs, and ESM-1b attention maps. The ESM-1b model, a Transformer-34 model pre-trained on Uniref50, provided attention maps. The attention maps were extracted from both the last layer and all layers of the ESM-1b model. The SPOT-1D-Single outputs included probabilities for SS3 and SS8, ASA, HSE, and protein backbone torsion angles. The models were trained using two different strategies: direct contact-map prediction and distogram-based prediction. The direct contact-map prediction models were trained using Binary Cross-Entropy loss, while the distogram-based prediction models used Cross-Entropy loss. The Adam optimizer was used with a learning rate of 0.001 and a batch size of 1. Early stopping was implemented with a patience of 3 epochs. The final ensemble model was created by averaging the predictions of the six individual models. The software versions for the compared methods (TrRosetta, SPOT-Contact, and ESM-1b) are available via the provided links.

Key Results
The key results demonstrate the effectiveness of SPOT-Contact-Single. On the CASP14-FM dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single achieved an F1-score of 0.2061, outperforming SSCpred by 15% in F1-score (Table 6). On the SPOT-2018 dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single achieved an F1-score of 0.32 for proteins with Neff=1, outperforming TrRosetta and SPOT-Contact, which had F1-scores of approximately 0.22 (Table 5). This represents an improvement of 48.7% and 48.5% in F1-score, respectively. The ensemble model showed a 4% improvement in F1-score over the second-best individual model on the validation set (Table 4). Ablation studies showed that using attention maps from the last layer of ESM-1b resulted in an F1-score of 0.51, a 242% improvement over models trained on one-hot encoding only (Table 2). Adding SPOT-1D-Single to one-hot encoding improved the F1-score by 22.90% (Table 2). The precision of long-range contacts was significantly improved, with approximately 100% improvement over SSCpred on CASP14-FM (Supplementary Table S4). The comparison of computational time showed that SPOT-Contact-Single was significantly faster than TrRosetta, with a 22x speedup on CPU and a 42x speedup on GPU for the CASP14-FM dataset (Supplementary Table S5).

Interpretation Implications
The findings suggest that incorporating features from pre-trained language models, specifically ESM-1b, can significantly improve single-sequence-based protein contact map prediction, particularly for proteins with limited or no homologous sequences. The enhanced performance of SPOT-Contact-Single indicates that the attention maps from ESM-1b capture valuable information about protein structure and residue interactions. The results support the idea that unsupervised learning methods can extract meaningful features from protein sequences, which can then be used to improve downstream prediction tasks. The study implies that the use of Transformer-based language models can provide a more efficient and accurate alternative to traditional MSA-based methods, especially when evolutionary information is scarce. The improved performance on proteins with low Neff values highlights the potential of this approach for studying proteins with limited sequence conservation. The results suggest that the ensemble approach, combining different feature combinations and training strategies, further enhances the prediction accuracy. The findings also suggest that direct contact-map prediction is slightly better than distogram-based prediction.

Contradictions Limitations
A key limitation of SPOT-Contact-Single is the inability to directly predict contact maps for proteins with more than 1024 amino acids, due to the input constraints of ESM-1b. The study does not address the potential impact of different training datasets or the influence of hyperparameter tuning on the model's performance. The generalizability of the results to other protein families or structural classes is not explicitly discussed. The study does not provide detailed information on the computational resources used for training and testing. The lack of a stand-alone version of SSCpred limited the ability to fully reproduce the comparison. The study acknowledges that the performance of single-sequence-based methods is still not as competitive as evolution-based methods when Neff increases, indicating that the co-mutation information provided by MSA is still valuable. The study does not report the random seed used for training, which could affect reproducibility. The study does not mention any potential biases in the datasets or the impact of these biases on the results.

Claims
[{"description": "SPOT-Contact-Single, using ESM-1b attention maps, improves protein contact map prediction compared to single-sequence-based methods, especially for proteins with few or no homologs.", "supporting_evidence": "On the CASP14-FM dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single achieved a 15% improvement in F1-score compared to SSCpred (Table 6). On the SPOT-2018 dataset, SPOT-Contact-Single outperformed TrRosetta and SPOT-Contact by 48.7% and 48.5% in F1-score, respectively, on proteins with Neff=1 (Table 5).", "contradicting_evidence": "The performance of SPOT-Contact-Single is still not as competitive as evolution-based methods when the number of effective homologous sequences (Neff) increases (Figure 3).", "implications": "This supports the use of language models for single-sequence-based protein contact map prediction, especially when MSA information is unavailable. However, it also highlights the continued importance of evolutionary information for optimal performance."}, {"description": "The inclusion of ESM-1b attention maps significantly improves the performance of the model compared to using one-hot encoding and SPOT-1D-Single alone.", "supporting_evidence": "Using attention maps from the last layer of ESM-1b resulted in an F1-score of 0.51, a 242% improvement over models trained on one-hot encoding only (Table 2). Adding SPOT-1D-Single to one-hot encoding improved the F1-score by 22.90% (Table 2).", "contradicting_evidence": "The improvement from ESM-1b attention maps is less pronounced when the number of effective homologous sequences increases, as shown in Figure 3.", "implications": "This highlights the importance of unsupervised learning features in enhancing single-sequence-based methods. It also suggests that the attention maps capture valuable information about protein structure."}, {"description": "The ensemble of models trained with different feature combinations and training strategies further enhances the prediction accuracy.", "supporting_evidence": "The ensemble model showed a 4% improvement in F1-score over the second-best individual model on the validation set (Table 4).", "contradicting_evidence": "The specific contribution of each individual model to the ensemble is not quantified in detail.", "implications": "This supports the use of ensemble methods to improve the robustness and accuracy of protein contact map prediction. It also suggests that different feature combinations capture complementary information."}, {"description": "SPOT-Contact-Single offers a faster alternative to evolution-based methods.", "supporting_evidence": "SPOT-Contact-Single was 22x faster on CPU and 42x faster on GPU compared to TrRosetta for the CASP14-FM dataset (Supplementary Table S5).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide a detailed comparison of the computational time for all methods across all datasets.", "implications": "This makes SPOT-Contact-Single more suitable for large-scale and real-time protein structure prediction."}]

Data Code Availability
The study does not explicitly mention data or code availability. Links to the stand-alone programs of TrRosetta, SPOT-Contact, and ESM-1b are provided.

Robustness Ablation Notes
Ablation studies showed the impact of different features. Using attention maps from the last layer of ESM-1b resulted in a significant improvement in F1-score compared to one-hot encoding and SPOT-1D-Single. The ensemble model improved the F1-score compared to individual models. The study does not include sensitivity analyses for hyperparameters.

Ethical Considerations
The study did not explicitly address ethical considerations, such as data privacy or informed consent. The study used publicly available data and did not involve human subjects.

Key Figures Tables
Table 2 shows the impact of different input features on the model's performance, with F1-score, MCC, precision, and AUC of ROC as metrics. Table 5 compares the performance of different predictors on the SPOT-2018 dataset, with F1-score as the primary metric. Figure 3 illustrates the relationship between the F1-score and the Neff values for different predictors. Figure 4 presents the native and predicted contact maps for an example protein. These figures and tables are crucial for understanding the performance of SPOT-Contact-Single and its comparison to other methods.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the development of SPOT-Contact-Single, a single-sequence-based protein contact map predictor that leverages the attention maps from the ESM-1b language model. This approach significantly improves prediction accuracy, especially for proteins with few or no homologs.

(2) The strongest evidence supporting the claims is the quantitative improvement in performance. SPOT-Contact-Single achieved a 15% improvement in F1-score over SSCpred on the CASP14-FM dataset and outperformed TrRosetta and SPOT-Contact by 48.7% and 48.5% in F1-score, respectively, on proteins with Neff=1. The ensemble model showed a 4% improvement in F1-score over the second-best individual model.

(3) The primary limitation is the inability to directly predict contact maps for proteins longer than 1024 amino acids due to the ESM-1b input constraints. A forward path includes exploring more advanced architectural models, such as Transformer or Performer, to further improve contact map prediction, and to extend the method to handle longer protein sequences.