Executive Summary
This study reports the design and synthesis of a single-domain protein catenane of dihydrofolate reductase (cat-DHFR), a mechanically interlocked protein structure. The researchers rewired the connectivity of the *E. coli* DHFR enzyme to introduce artificial entanglement, using split-intein pairs for cyclization. The resulting cat-DHFR was characterized using LC-MS, SDS-PAGE, protease cleavage, and ion mobility mass spectrometry. Compared to a linear control (l-DHFR), cat-DHFR retained catalytic activity, albeit at a reduced level, and exhibited enhanced stability against thermal and chemical denaturation. Specifically, cat-DHFR showed a catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) reduced by an order of magnitude compared to l-DHFR. The dissociation constants (KD) for substrates were generally much larger for cat-DHFR than for l-DHFR, indicating reduced affinity. However, cat-DHFR retained 87% activity in the presence of 5% DMSO, compared to 74% for l-DHFR, suggesting enhanced stability. The study demonstrates that linear proteins can be converted into single-domain catenanes with preserved function and enhanced stability, representing a novel approach in protein engineering. The main limitation is the reduced catalytic efficiency of cat-DHFR relative to the linear control.

Research Context
The study addresses the limited topological diversity of linear proteins, which are the basis of natural protein domains. While protein engineering has advanced, the synthesis of single-domain topological proteins, particularly catenanes, remains challenging. Prior work has focused on multi-domain topological proteins, which complicates the study of topological effects. The authors aim to create a single-domain catenane to better understand the impact of topology on protein properties. This work builds upon previous research using genetically encoded entangling motifs and split-intein ligation pairs to synthesize topological proteins. The novelty lies in using the original fold of a single-domain protein itself as the entangling template to create a catenane with identical composition to the linear wild-type.

Research Question Hypothesis
The central research question is whether a single-domain protein, specifically DHFR, can be converted into a catenane structure while retaining its function and exhibiting enhanced stability. The primary hypothesis is that rewiring the connectivity within the DHFR domain to create a catenane will result in a protein with preserved catalytic activity and increased stability compared to its linear counterpart. An alternative hypothesis is that the structural changes required for catenane formation will disrupt the protein's native fold, leading to reduced activity or instability. The study differs from prior work by focusing on a single-domain protein catenane, using the protein's own fold as the template, and aiming for a molecule with the same composition as the linear control. The outcomes supporting the hypothesis would include evidence of catenane formation, preserved catalytic activity, and increased stability. Refutation would involve loss of activity, instability, or failure to form the catenane structure.

Methodological Details
The study employed a combination of molecular design, *in vitro* protein synthesis, and biochemical characterization. The design of cat-DHFR involved rewiring the *E. coli* DHFR enzyme. The Gaussian linking number (GLN) matrix of the wild-type DHFR (PDB: 4KJJ) was used to identify the splitting position. The design used residues 1-88 as one ring and residues 89-159 as the other ring. The genes for cat-DHFR and a linear control (l-DHFR) were synthesized and subcloned into pMCSG19 and pET21a vectors, respectively, for expression in *E. coli* BL21(DE3) competent cells. Protein expression was conducted at 16°C for 20 hours. After cell lysis, proteins were purified under native conditions using Ni-NTA affinity chromatography, followed by size exclusion chromatography (SEC). The purified products were analyzed using SDS-PAGE, LC-MS, far-UV CD spectroscopy, and near-UV CD spectroscopy. Protease cleavage experiments were performed using a tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease recognition site pre-programmed in the first ring of cat-DHFR. Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) and collision-induced dissociation (CID) were used for further characterization. Enzyme activity was assessed by monitoring the absorbance at 340 nm at 25°C. Kinetic parameters (Km and kcat) were determined by fitting the Michaelis curve and Hanes-Woolf plot. Binding affinity with substrates (NADPH, DHF, and THF) was measured using isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). Thermal stability was assessed by measuring activity at 60°C, and chemical stability was tested by adding DMSO to a final concentration of 5% and performing the activity assay. No pre-registration was mentioned. Multiple-comparison corrections were not mentioned. The study adhered to standard biochemical and molecular biology techniques. The term “catenane” refers to two mechanically interlocked polypeptide rings. “GLN” refers to Gaussian linking number, a measure of intertwinement.

Procedures Architectures
The study involved the design and synthesis of a single-domain protein catenane of DHFR. The design process began with the wild-type DHFR structure. The researchers used the GLN matrix to identify a suitable splitting position. The design involved splitting the DHFR sequence between residues 88 and 89, creating two rings. Ring I was circularly permutated to generate new termini between residues 23 and 24. The gene cassette was designed to include two DHFR segments, two mutually orthogonal split-intein pairs for ring closure, and a TEV protease recognition sequence in the first ring. The linear control (l-DHFR) was designed with the same amino acid composition as the wild-type DHFR, but with extra amino acids at the N- and C-termini. The genes were synthesized and subcloned into expression vectors. The proteins were expressed in *E. coli* BL21(DE3) cells. The cat-DHFR synthesis utilized a streamlined biosynthesis method using two pairs of mutually orthogonal split-intein pairs. The split-intein pairs facilitated the cyclization of the two polypeptide chains. The new loops were designed with distinct lengths to ensure proper crossing. The linker effect was tested by varying the sequence and length of the L2 loop. The architecture of the cat-DHFR is novel, as it is a single-domain protein catenane created by rewiring the original DHFR fold. The use of split-inteins for cyclization is also a key aspect of the methodology.

Key Results
The SDS-PAGE analysis showed a single band at approximately 22 kDa for l-DHFR and a major band at less than 20 kDa for cat-DHFR (Figure 2a). The SEC analysis showed that cat-DHFR eluted as a broader peak at a slightly larger retention volume than l-DHFR (Figure 2b). The LC-MS spectra confirmed the accurate molecular weights of cat-DHFR and l-DHFR (Figure 2c). The far-UV CD spectra showed that cat-DHFR remained folded, but with reduced intensities (Figure 2d). The catalytic activity of cat-DHFR was approximately 5 U/mg, compared to 14 U/mg for the linear control (Figure 4c). The Km of cat-DHFR was approximately 5-fold that of l-DHFR, and the kcat was about 38% that of l-DHFR (Table 1). The catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) of cat-DHFR was reduced by an order of magnitude. The KD for DHF was ~173-fold larger for cat-DHFR than for l-DHFR, and ~14-fold larger for NADPH (Table 1). The KD between cat-DHFR and THF was increased by ~3.6-fold relative to l-DHFR. The activity of cat-DHFR was 87% in the presence of 5% DMSO, compared to 74% for l-DHFR (Figure S11). The yield with the shortest linker was about one-fifth that of the longest (~12 mg/L of culture).

Interpretation Implications
The results suggest that it is possible to convert a linear protein into a catenane structure while retaining a significant portion of its catalytic activity and enhancing its stability. The reduced catalytic efficiency of cat-DHFR is likely due to the altered binding affinity towards substrates and cofactor. The increased stability of cat-DHFR against thermal and chemical denaturation suggests that the mechanical interlocking of the rings provides conformational restriction. The study implies that the chemical topology of a protein domain can be changed without collapsing the fold, leading to altered properties. The findings support the idea that the topological dimension can be exploited for protein engineering to enhance protein stability. The study suggests that the reduced enzymatic activity should be mainly attributed to the compromised affinity of cat-DHFR towards substrate and cofactor.

Contradictions Limitations
The study's primary limitation is the reduced catalytic efficiency of cat-DHFR compared to the linear control. The authors acknowledge that the current approach requires optimization for high-yield expression and efficient catenane formation. The authors attempted to crystallize cat-DHFR but failed to obtain crystals of sufficient quality, which prevented direct structural confirmation. The study does not report the random seed used for any simulations or analyses. The study does not mention any subgroup effects. The external validity of the findings is limited by the use of a single protein, DHFR, and the specific design choices made. The study does not provide information on the demographics of the sample. The study does not report any conflicts with prior literature. The study does not mention any ethical considerations.

Claims
[{"description": "A single-domain protein catenane of DHFR was successfully designed and synthesized.", "supporting_evidence": "The study reports the design and synthesis of cat-DHFR using rewired segments and split-inteins. SDS-PAGE, LC-MS, and CD spectra confirmed the formation of the catenane structure.", "contradicting_evidence": "The authors were unable to obtain crystals of sufficient quality to confirm the structure directly.", "implications": "This demonstrates the feasibility of creating single-domain protein catenanes using a novel approach."}, {"description": "Cat-DHFR retains catalytic activity, although reduced, compared to the linear control.", "supporting_evidence": "Cat-DHFR exhibited a catalytic activity of ~5 U/mg, while the linear control had 14 U/mg (Figure 4c). The kcat of cat-DHFR was about 38% that of l-DHFR (Table 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "The catalytic efficiency (kcat/Km) of cat-DHFR was reduced by an order of magnitude.", "implications": "This suggests that the catenane structure does not completely abolish the protein's function, but the rewiring affects the catalytic efficiency."}, {"description": "Cat-DHFR exhibits enhanced stability against thermal and chemical denaturation compared to the linear control.", "supporting_evidence": "Cat-DHFR retained 87% activity in the presence of 5% DMSO, compared to 74% for l-DHFR (Figure S11).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not provide direct evidence of enhanced thermal stability beyond the DMSO assay.", "implications": "This indicates that the mechanical interlocking of the rings in the catenane structure provides increased conformational rigidity."}, {"description": "The reduced catalytic efficiency of cat-DHFR is associated with decreased substrate and cofactor affinity.", "supporting_evidence": "The Km of cat-DHFR was approximately 5-fold that of l-DHFR. The KD for DHF was ~173-fold larger for cat-DHFR than for l-DHFR, and ~14-fold larger for NADPH (Table 1).", "contradicting_evidence": "The study does not fully elucidate the mechanism behind the reduced affinity.", "implications": "This suggests that the altered structure of cat-DHFR affects the binding of substrates and cofactors, impacting its catalytic efficiency."}]

Data Code Availability
The paper does not mention any data or code availability.

Robustness Ablation Notes
The study tested the effect of different linker sequences and lengths. The yield of catenane decreased as the linker became shorter, but the catenated products could still be obtained. The study also attempted constructs using split-intein ligation pairs on the same side of DHFR for ring closure, which resulted in less catenane product.

Ethical Considerations
The paper does not mention any ethical considerations.

Key Figures Tables
Figure 2 shows the SDS-PAGE, SEC overlay, LC-MS spectra, and far-UV CD spectra, providing evidence for the formation and structural characteristics of cat-DHFR. Figure 4c presents the kinetic curves of DHFR samples, illustrating the catalytic activity of cat-DHFR compared to the linear control. Table 1 summarizes the kinetic parameters and dissociation constants, quantifying the differences in catalytic efficiency and substrate affinity. These figures and tables are crucial for understanding the structural and functional properties of cat-DHFR and comparing them to the linear control.

Three Takeaways
(1) The core novel contribution is the successful design and synthesis of a single-domain protein catenane of DHFR, demonstrating that it is possible to alter the topology of a protein domain without collapsing its fold. (2) The strongest evidence comes from the retention of catalytic activity in cat-DHFR (5 U/mg) compared to the linear control (14 U/mg), along with enhanced stability in the presence of DMSO (87% activity retention for cat-DHFR vs. 74% for l-DHFR), and the confirmation of the catenane structure via multiple analytical techniques. (3) The primary limitation is the reduced catalytic efficiency of cat-DHFR, which highlights the need for further optimization of the design and synthesis strategy. Future work could focus on directed evolution to restore or improve the catalytic activity of cat-DHFR.